
Last week I was a host of October

Nexus Live and attended DevOpsDays

Vancouver. In both events Sonatype Nexus and CLM were present as part

of a devops pipeline and I got to chat with many people that use Nexus

or would probably get a lot of benefits from doing so...
In the Nexus Live event John Nagro and Tom McLaughlin from HubSpot detailed how they are using

Nexus as a repository for their development and release components. They

found that they need to be able to quickly create another virtual

machine as part of their build infrastructure to react to changes in

datacenter locations and other parameters. To facilitate that they have

created a Puppet module that can install Nexus. The module is

available on puppet forge

ready for you to use. In addition the source is available on GitHub and

John and Tom are looking forward to your contributions. They shared a lot of further interesting details about their Nexus use case and the scale they are working at. Go and check out the recording for more information.
Kyle Allan from RiotGames also

hung out with us and reminded us of the Chef cookbook for Nexus he is

maintaining, which is also available on GitHub. Both

the Puppet module and the Chef cookbook are used for installing and

configuring Nexus as part of a devops pipeline.
When it comes to configuring Nexus and generally interacting with it

from the outside in an automated fashion, it is best to use the Nexus

REST API either directly in your script or the

Java API wrapper. A great collection of examples of using the REST API is

the nexus_cli Ruby gem also available from GitHub and authored by RiotGames.
The REST API as well as plain HTTP based downloads are also what comes

in handy for the more common Nexus use cases that support a devops

scenario - as a repository. Nexus is certainly great to have in your

build pipeline just for the mere proxying of components from the

Central Repository and others and the resulting simplification and

tremendous performance gains. But the best benefits occur when you

get your build to deploy the production components into Nexus

repositories. Your configuration management tool like Puppet, Chef or

Ansible can then pick it up from there via the REST API. Alternatively

you could use a YUM repository in Nexus, if your production platform

uses RPMs.
Both of these scenarios were quite common with the various people I

met at DevOpsDays, Vancouver. I presented an ignite talk in which I

argued that the devops pipeline should take security and license

characteristics of all the jars and other components used in your

application into consideration when pushing to production. Just like a failing integration test stops deployment, a known security issue in one of your dependencies or a problematic license should stop deployment too. In the

demo session I showed the attendees how the data from Sonatype CLM exposed

in your Eclipse IDE, your Jenkins CI server and your Nexus staging

setup can greatly help you with this and how easy it is to configure

your policies for your components and adapt them to the specific parts

of your devops pipeline.
There was a lot of agreement visible in the audience and other talks

about web application security and hackers lead me to believe

that considering what you know about component vulnerabilities should impact how you deploy applications in a devops fashion.