

The newly released report, The Forrester Wave™: Software Composition Analysis, Q2 2023 has named the Sonatype platform as a Leader among the top vendors in the market. Ranking our solution alongside 11 vendors, we’re thrilled to continue to be recognized by Forrester and other independent analyst firms as we solidify our position as a leader in Software Composition Analysis (SCA).
This Forrester Wave™ report evaluated top vendors based on 32 criteria across three key categories: Current Offering, Market Presence, and Strategy. We emerged as a leader, receiving the highest score in the current offering category, and receiving the highest possible ratings in 16 criteria. Notably, we received the highest possible scores in the vulnerability identification, software supply chain security, and policy management criteria.
The Forrester report notes:
“Sonatype’s differentiated innovation strategy includes security, developers, operations, and legal personas and prevents next-generation supply chain attacks. The superior vision to provide one platform available in the cloud or self-hosted is backed by a roadmap that includes improving developer experience with enhanced prioritization and remediation capabilities as well as applying ML/AI to speed up detection, reduce remediation time, and predict new types of attacks.”
Leading the way in SCA
At Sonatype, our groundbreaking software supply chain management platform contains three key components: Sonatype Repository Firewall, Sonatype Nexus Repository, and Sonatype Lifecycle. We are the market’s only complete Software Supply Chain Platform that addresses more than SCA.
Approximately 90% of companies rely on open source software. There’s been a notable surge in supply chain attacks leading to high-profile security incidents over the past five years. As a result, vulnerability management has garnered significant attention from regulatory bodies, and Chief Information Security Officers. In this landscape, the inclusion of SCA in the toolkit of most software-writing or selling companies has become imperative. As the foremost provider of SCA solutions globally, we were proud to recently be recognized in the wider AST space by earning a spot in Gartner's Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing (AST).
Our customers are developing software fearlessly
Our unwavering commitment to security has fostered trust among over 2,000 organizations worldwide, allowing their teams to develop innovative software applications with the utmost confidence, knowing they are built and employed securely.
With the Sonatype platform, our customers have been able to:

Improve release velocity by 6x
Identify and remediate OSS vulnerabilities 26x more compared to using other solutions
Find and remediate 95x more vulnerabilities versus using other solutions
According to The Forrester Wave™ report:
“Strong customer relationships give Sonatype its edge. One reference customer told us, 'Sonatype is one of the best vendors I have ever worked with. Everyone is concerned about understanding their customers and making them happy.'”
Get your copy of The Forrester Wave™: Software Composition Analysis
Download the full report to learn more about Forrester’s evaluation and why Sonatype is a leader among the 12 providers that matter most.
Curious if the Sonatype platform is the right solution for your company? The Wave report also noted:
“Sonatype is the best fit for organizations with a diverse software supply chain; that want assurance that security, license, and operational risk aren’t being introduced; and that have the resources to integrate the suite of products.”
Explore the Sonatype platform and enable your organization to develop software fearlessly.