
We are excited to announce the official release of Nexus Repository 3.25. Delivering on much anticipation from the Nexus community, this release completes full support for NuGet V3 repositories, including new NuGet V3 Group repositories, and gives both Nexus Repository Pro and OSS users access to the up-to-date V3 API. Nexus Repository and Visual Studio users can now create Proxy, Hosted, and Group NuGet V3 repositories with faster performance. This is all explained with how to get started in our NuGet V3 help documentation!
Nexus Repository offers robust, universal binary repository management for .NET development teams. In addition to being able to proxy and locally cache NuGet V3 packages from external remote repositories – most popular being NuGet Gallery via NuGet.org – Nexus users can now create NuGet V3 Group repositories. These group repositories combine hosted and proxy repositories for unified repository access from a single URL, allowing development teams to easily work with all of their NuGet components in one place. What are the benefits of NuGet V3 over V2? Why should Nexus customers and users upgrade to Nexus Repository 3.25 and take advantage of this new extended format support? Let’s explore both of these in the following material.
NuGet V3 Performance Improvements
Faster development, more frequent release cycles, and efficient reuse of components across teams have been important outcomes of using package managers and binary repositories when solving the challenge of managing open source and third-party libraries into an application during development. As production scales, software supply chains become more complex and any delay in time across each phase of the SDLC creates friction across an organization.
Nexus product team testing for performance of NuGet V3 over V2 shows 25-50% faster build times and ~50% reduction in NXRM memory usage.
As one of our customers said: “The Nexus Repository solution is essential to increasing speed and agility…we’re moving to a two week cycle on every sprint or every other sprint.”
Nexus Repository Manager and NuGet Packages
Many organizations developing on the .NET framework use open source components and third-party libraries when building applications. NuGet Gallery manages millions of packages for .NET developers and teams, but comes with important challenges when addressing the entire SDLC for centralized binary management and maintenance:

Lack of package distribution internally amongst developers
Heavy network traffic when executing builds
Inability to efficiently search through millions of NuGet packages
No offline access to packages and metadata
Slow build times when downloading hundreds of packages for a project
Using Nexus Repository Manager for your NuGet packages, developers and teams will be able to quickly and easily retrieve the required third-party packages for your projects during the build process. The artifacts are stored in Nexus Repository Manager and move throughout the CI/CD pipelines into production. The benefit of always having access to these packages in your system when you need them is highly valuable to your software supply chain. Discovering the available pipeline and how to best utilize it will help scale any development team into a more secure and mature DevOps organization.
As always, if you have any questions please leave a comment below or connect with our product teams via the Nexus community.
Additional Resources
For further Nexus release details and any questions you may have, please refer to the links below:

Nexus Repository 3.25 full release notes
Documentation for NuGet V3 Proxy,  NuGet V3 Hosted, and NuGet V3 Group
Nexus community, support, and quick-start guides at my.sonatype.com