
Sonatype is excited to announce the immediate availability of Nexus Repository 3.3 in OSS and Pro editions.  What’s in this latest release?  We’re glad you asked:

Next-Generation Repository Health Check
We first introduced Repository Health Check (RHC) in 2012.  Now, every day we analyze over 80,000 repositories and 50 million components for our Nexus users.
With the 3.3 release, we’ve made a significant overhaul to how Repository Health Check works. Our goal was to make it easier for repository administrators to not just understand, but to improve the health of their repositories over time.
RHC now shows the top five components in need of remediation, prioritized by the severity and impact of the vulnerability. It also provides download trends to help you understand how the health of your repositories is changing over time.
If you are using Nexus Repository and have not yet turned on the RHC feature, start today.  What’s the urgency?  The 2016 State of the Software Supply Chain Report that indicated 1 in 16 open source components downloads has a known security vulnerability.  It’s time to know what’s in your repo.

Git LFS Support
Nexus Repository is first to market with free support for Git LFS.
Downloading or sharing large binary files, such as videos, images, audio recordings, and database files, can slow down the development process and negatively impact the performance of a DevOps tool chain. By managing these components in Nexus Repository, organizations can save time and benefit from increased availability, ease of file sharing, and the ability to better control access to Git LFS components.
Nexus Repository lets you store all of your software binaries, including Git LFS in a single location.  With the introduction of Git LFS support, Nexus Repository now offers free support for eight components formats, including: Docker, Java, npm, NuGet, RubyGems, PyPI, and Bower.
Once you give our Git LFS support a try, we would love to hear how this feature works for you.  Let us know at nexus-feedback@sonatype.com.
Other Enhancements
Remote Storage URL Validation: we’ve tightened the validation of proxy repository configuration to prevent blank or invalid remote repository URLs. Before upgrading to 3.3.0 from 3.2.1 or earlier, please ensure that your proxy repository remote URLs are valid.
Upgrading from 2.x: if you’re upgrading from Nexus Repository 2.x, you must first upgrade your installation to 2.14.4. This corrects an issue where the upgrade process could fail if it encountered invalid or corrupt NuGet components in the 2.x repository.
Please see the full support article for details.
Download Nexus Now
To download Nexus Repository 3.3, visit the Sonatype OSS download site, or our support download page.  The release notes are available on our support site.
To learn more about this latest Nexus Repository release and other integrations we have announced for Nexus this week, please join us for our next webinar on May 10th.
