
Over the past three years, we’ve held the Federal DevSecOps Leadership Forum in Washington, D.C., where government decision-makers come together and share their DevSecOps journeys on stage with government leaders across the community.
This year’s speakers were confirmed and the event was scheduled for May 6th. That is, until the world as we know it, changed. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), COVID-19, is making its way across the United States, into our cities, now into our communities. It is no longer safe to bring our leaders together in the same room.
In the wake of social distancing, it is, oddly enough, a time to come together, creatively. Society is using technology to do this. This year we are excited to do our part and bring together hundreds of federal DevSecOp leaders and future DevSecOp leaders, virtually.
The Benefits of Joining Other Government Leaders Virtually:

Our online forum now allows public sector leaders across the country to participate. Our in-person event is a tremendous networking opportunity, but many leaders outside the D.C. area may not be able to attend due to travel restraints. Now you can join from anywhere in the country.
Interact with DevSecOps leaders from top federal agencies through live Q&A. Many attendees are more comfortable asking a question in a webinar room versus in-person. Now you can take advantage of the chat box. Engaging Q&A will be part of every online session.
Benefit from full access to all the resources and presentations shared at the event.This is a plus that can’t be overlooked. All attendees will receive additional reference material helpful for future decision-making.
Engage your government peers. Many agencies will share specific DevSecOps lessons learned. Attendees will have the opportunity for polling, allowing you to share and receive feedback instantaneously.
Learn best practices and practical next steps to accelerate your DevSecOps journey. Hear first hand experiences from government agencies who have culturally and technically transformed to adopt tools and solutions that automate DevSecOps at scale. Register for free here.
The time is now for DevSecOps across the federal government. We will still come together for our in-person leadership forum as soon as time allows, but it’s time to join the conversation now, online.
At the program we’ll feature some of today’s premier DevSecOps government leaders who have supported government initiatives and missions to make it easier, faster, and more secure to build and deliver software.

Chris Roberts, Attivo Networks, Chief Security Strategist is considered one of the world’s foremost experts on counter threat intelligence and vulnerability research within the Information Security industry.
Katie Arrington, Chief Information Security Officer for the Assistant Secretary of Defense and Acquisition. She is leading the DoD effort to develop and institutionalize the new Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC) standard for vendors.

Ron Ross, NIST Fellow is focused on the development of DevSecOps guidance for agencies that would allow security to shift left, back into the software development life cycle.
Nicolas Chaillan, Air Force Chief Software Officer and co-lead for the Department of Defense Enterprise Initiative enabling Air Force programs in the transition to Agile and DevSecOps to establish force-wide DevSecOps capabilities and best practices.
 
 

“If we can all pause for a moment, take stock of who we are as a community, realize that we function much better as a collaborative group. We can solve anything that’s put in front of us...” - Chris Roberts, 2020 DevSecOps Federal Leadership Forum Keynote