
Sonatype Learn resources build and improve user's expertise on Sonatype tools. We’re expanding our onboarding tools for new users and adding new interactive courses to go along with our own advice column on key issues in software supply chain management. This will help new and current Sonatype users expand their capabilities while building open source and the software supply chain knowledge.
Got the onboarding blues?
When you're just staring out, learning new products can be time consuming and overwhelming for the user. You now have access to a plan that gives you all the resources upfront. This first journey map focuses on resources for your security team.
The Onboarding and Implementing Your Sonatype Products (Security Focus) Journey Map is flexible, allowing you to freely navigate through any or all of the steps in the process and focus on the sections that are most important to you and your team.
Benefits of this Journey Map include:

Line-of-sight to the entire onboarding and implementation processes
Alignment of expectations and more simply divide accountabilities within teams
Breaking down silos in an organization and within teams, allowing a more streamlined introduction to Sonatype products
Resolving potential knowledge gaps at different stages of onboarding and implementation
And don't forget our first two JumpStarts that also help you get up and running quickly:

Jump Start For Developers — Getting Started with Nexus Firewall
Jump Start For Developers — Getting Started with the Nexus Platform
New interactive course catalog
Quickly connect with the content most relevant to you in the Sonatype Learn Interactive Course Catalog:

Just Ask Sloan, where you decide the topic
Ask Sloan provides advice on all topics related to cybersecurity. When you need advice, encouragement, or want to share your thoughts with others, email your question. Together, we’ll make cyber a safer space.
Join the conversation on our current trending advice articles:

Lost on Open Source Licenses in Los Angeles
Agile and DevOps – Puzzled In Pittsburgh
Zero-Day Doom and Gloom
Hashes, Hashes, We all Fall Down
Containers Crash Course Needed in Cape Town
___
Visit Sonatype Learn for more resources, including guided learning paths, a full course catalog, best practices, and more.