
My team and I are excited to announce that we are sponsoring Red Hat Summit 2023. Our partnership with Red Hat has allowed us to combine our state-of-the-art solutions, making securing your software supply chain more convenient and affordable. With Sonatype Lifecycle on Red Hat OpenShift, you can generate a software bill of materials (SBOM) that promotes transparency and aids vulnerability remediation throughout your software development life cycle.
This foundation of secure development has become even more crucial this year due to various government mandates in the Federal and Financial Services industries. These mandates include the National Cybersecurity Strategy, Executive Order 14028, and B-10 in Canada, which applies to federally regulated financial institutions (FRFIs).
Recommended sessions
For me, Red Hat Summit is about networking with our amazing partners, learning the product roadmap for the year, and attending the Ecosystem Success Day.
Ecosystem Success Day is all about learning how to be better together. This is a must for any partners, ISV, and anyone who is involved with implementing integrations that are made possible by Red Hat OpenShift.
In addition, I am ecstatic for AnsibleFest, where we can access automation content and the opportunity to have comprehensive sessions that range across Red Hat's entire ecosystem.
Tips for newbies

There are a lot of amazing sessions - Be sure to take your time to look through all of your options beforehand so you can get a seat to the most sought after discussions.
Leave extra room in your suitcase - You could walk home with a LEGO set from Sonatype.
Rest up and come ready - It's a marathon, not a sprint. Be prepared to walk, talk and learn!
Tips for everyone

Socialize and collaborate - There are so many opportunities to connect with participants, partners, and Red Hat team members. Go to all of the happy hours, crawls, and extra events to maximize your experience.
Absorb as much as possible - Summit is like being at a major theme park, there is so much to do and see in a short period of time.
Utilize the app and calendar features - Register for sessions in advance to make the most of your time.
Attend all the Keynote sessions - Don’t miss your opportunity to absorb as much knowledge as possible.
Visit the partner expo - And stop by Sonatype’s Booth #370 to learn more about SBOMs.

Visit the Red Hat Summit website for more information.
---