
On the back of yesterdays post on running Azure Container Instance containers with persistent storage, I thought I’d try a couple of other containers with my script.
Note: I don’t actually plan on running any of these apps, I just wanted to test out the process and my scripts to identify any problems.
I tried:

Sonatype Nexus 2 – sonatype/nexus:oss
Sonatype Nexus 3 – sonatype/nexus3:latest
Jenkins – jenkins/jenkins
And here are the results of my tests:

Editor's Note: This article is a contribution from a Nexus Community member. If you have questions or feedback, please continue the discussion in the comments section below.
Sonatype Nexus 2
Works perfectly and the container starts up quickly (under 10 seconds):

I passed the following parameters to the script:
Note: The Nexus 2 server is only accessible on the path /nexus/.
Sonatype Nexus 3
Works perfectly but after takes at least a minute to be accessible after the container starts. But this is normal behavior for Nexus 3.


Jenkins
Unfortunately Jenkins does not work with a persistent storage volume from an Azure Share. It seems to be trying to set the timestamp of the file that will contain the InitialAdminPassword, which is failing:

So, this is still a little bit hit and miss, but in general Azure Container Instances look like a very promising way to run different types of services in containers without a lot of overhead. With a bit of automation, this could turn out to be a cost effective way to quickly and easily run some common services.
About Daniel Scott-Raynsford (Microsoft MVP)
I am a Microsoft MVP in Cloud and Datacenter Management. I am also a Technical Specialist at IAG NZ Ltd in the Continuous Delivery team and responsible for PowerShell DSC and automation. I live and breathe all things PowerShell and PowerShell DSC, Azure, containers and Windows Server. I am currently an MCSA in Windows Server 2012R2. I am also an active contributor to the Microsoft DSC Community Resource kit and PowerShell Documentation.
You can follow my work on my site at Powershell, Programming at DevOps