
The market for B2B enterprise software companies is growing exponentially - to the tune of $400 billion dollars. Just ask Ann Winblad, founder of Hummer Winblad Venture Partners, and Sonatype Board Member, who spent yesterday sharing perspective with the team at CNBC’s Squawk Box.
Ann aptly noted "there are more software developers at Goldman Sachs, than there are bankers.”  Indeed, from banking, to automobiles, to insurance, to health care, to entertainment; companies capable of delivering innovative software applications are disrupting their competitors and gaining market share in every industry.
To survive and compete effectively, CEOs and shareholders are placing intense pressure upon IT leaders to accelerate the pace of software innovation.  In response, organizations are hiring armies of software developers, consuming unprecedented amounts of open source components, and embracing DevOps-native development practices to automate and optimize the entire software development lifecycle.
Ann explained how speed is critical, open source is everywhere, and developers are center stage -- and she emphasized the importance of automation to help make the developer's job easier.  Ultimately, Ann said,“companies want to give the best tools to their programmers, to make sure their projects are done with quality and done faster, and you want to make sure they’re secure.”
That’s where Sonatype comes in; thanks for the shout out Ann!

Clip from the Internet Archives' TV News Archive
At Sonatype we have a long history of partnership with the world of open source software development -- and we're fortunate to have leaders like Ann on our board.  From our humble beginning as core contributors to Apache Maven, to supporting the world’s largest repository of open source components (Central), to distributing the world's most popular repository manager (Nexus), we exist for one simple reason; to help organizations leverage all of the good that open source has to offer, but none of the bad.