
	   


A bug in npm (Node Package Manager), the most widely used JavaScript package manager, will change ownership of crucial Linux system folders, such as /etc, /usr, /boot.

Changing ownership of these files either crashes the system, various local apps, or prevents the system from booting, according to reports from users who installed npm v5.7.0. —the buggy npm update.

Most users will have to reinstall systems

Users who installed this update —mostly developers and software engineers— will likely have to reinstall their system from scratch or restore from a previous system image.

"This destroyed 3 production server after a single deploy!," one affected user said in a GitHub bug report today. Many others users have taken to Twitter to describe similar issues with dev and production servers, and warn other users not to update.




“if I run sudo npm --help …my filesystem [changes] ownership of directories such as /etc, /usr, /boot”
Going to be a long day for a lot of Ops folk today.
— Kenn White (@kennwhite) February 22, 2018




Would hate to be a Nope.js developer today, sounds like latest NPM fucks your box up pretty bad.https://t.co/O8BQU4wvhm
— Bobby 'Tables (@info_dox) February 22, 2018

Bug first reported a week ago

The bug was first reported a week ago but was left without an answer from npm developers. Users filed a new bug report after last night's release, and the npm team has released npm v5.7.1, a version that removes the buggy code.

FreeBSD users have also reported being impacted by the bug. Mac and Windows users didn't experience any issues. The problem did not affect every Linux user.

"By running sudo npm under a non-root user (root users do not have the same effect), filesystem permissions are being heavily modified," said Jared Tiala, the software developer who reported the issue to the npm team three hours after v5.7.0 went live.

Running the npm update commands as root doesn't result in npm trying to reassign root ownership to all files, so the issue appears to affect only npm update operations prefixed by a sudo command.

"For example, if I run sudo npm --help or sudo npm update -g, both commands cause my filesystem to change ownership of directories such as /etc, /usr, /boot, and other directories needed for running the system," Tiala said. "It appears that the ownership is recursively changed to the user currently running npm."

Npm is the de-facto package manager for all small, medium, and large-scale JavaScript project. Npm is packed with Node.js, and is also the largest package manager on the Internet, hosting libraries and plugins for Node.js, Ember, jQuery, Bootstrap, React, Angular, and many other JavaScript frameworks. You won't find a JavaScript developer that doesn't use nowadays.

	   
           
          
            Related Articles:
	     European Space Agency's official store hacked to steal payment cardsMalicious Rspack, Vant packages published using stolen NPM tokensMalicious Microsoft VSCode extensions target devs, crypto communityKali Linux 2024.4 released with 14 new tools, deprecates some features390,000 WordPress accounts stolen from hackers in supply chain attack
	  
 
	  