
The 2023 RH-ISAC Regional Workshop series kicks off in February and will include in-person professional development opportunities in locations across the U.S. and Europe. This series features interactive discussions and threat landscape briefings, including mitigation or response techniques. In addition, attendees will get intel on observed incidents and emerging threats relevant to the retail and hospitality community.
All workshops are free to attend and open to non-members. Each workshop is hosted by a different RH-ISAC Core Member, including PetSmart, IHG Hotels & Resorts, Colgate-Palmolive, Nestlé, Natura &Co, and Expedia. Specialized Security Services (S3) and Threat Blocker are included among the event sponsors.
Dates & Locations
The Regional Workshop dates and locations are as follows:

February 16 – Phoenix
March 14 – Atlanta
March 29 – New Jersey
May 24 – Seattle
June 8 – London
June 29 – Las Vegas (only open to cybersecurity practitioners working in the gaming and hospitality industries)
TBD – Barcelona
The workshops in Barcelona and London will include tactical and strategic breakout discussion sessions.
Program
The program opens with registration and breakfast, followed by the first interactive discussion and a member presentation session, then lunch and networking, and afterward, a second interactive discussion and additional presentations and briefings from a member, sponsor, and the RH-ISAC intelligence team. At the end of a productive day, attendees can further network by attending a happy hour with their peers.
With the full return of in-person events in 2023, the goal of the Regional Workshop series is to facilitate collaborative conversations and promote face-to-face networking with peers. The series is an excellent opportunity not only to connect with RH-ISAC members, but also to partake in team-building activities. Furthermore, each session gives participants the opportunity to develop professionally with the sharing of advancements in the cybersecurity industry.
Eligibility & Questions
Those participants eligible for the workshop are information security practitioners from retail, restaurants, hotels, gaming casinos, food retailers, consumer product manufacturers, and other consumer-facing companies. The Regional Workshop series does not include lodging and travel accommodations. For questions relating to participation eligibility, registration, and/or other general inquiries, please email events@rhisac.org. Visit rhisac.org/regional-workshops to register for a workshop.