
Great content, energy and enthusiasm are the hallmarks of the RH-ISAC Cyber Intelligence Summit – and this year is no exception. If anything, moving to a virtual experience lets us reach more people, line up the best speakers, and continue to provide interactive breakout sessions and networking opportunities – all from the comfort and convenience of your desk! Abercrombie & Fitch, Marriott, Wayfair, McDonald’s Corporation! The list of speakers is growing every day, with top security professionals from places including Target, Loews Hotels, Kimberley-Clark, Wendy’s, and more.You can check out the agenda to see who else will be attending.
Each day will bring a different focus. We encourage you to attend sessions on all three days to gain perspective from all levels of your organization! Here is a breakdown of the RH-ISAC Summit and highlights of the sessions for each day:
The first day will focus on strategic leaders and CISO’s, with confirmed sessions such as:

Triple Threat: Three Predictions for where Cybercrime is Headed in 2021 and Beyond by Theresa Payton, Former CIO, White House, 2019 Woman Cybersecurity Leader of the Year*
Security Awareness & Training: A Simple Conversation by Matt Dunlop, VP, CISO, Under Armour, & Tony Vitello, CISO, URBN
Digital Transformation: The Human Element by Elliott Franklin, VP, IT Security & Governance, Loews Hotels
Driving Change to Create a More Diverse Workforce a panel with Brennan O’Brien, Director, Information Security, Columbia Sportswear and Jodie Kautt, VP, Cybersecurity, Target, Moderated by Lynn Dohm, Executive Director, Women in Cybersecurity*
The Future of Application Security: Increased Revenue, Less User Friction by Sumit Agarwal, VP, Analytics Products, F5*
Day two will focus on operational and tactical perspectives. Sessions on this day will dive into threat intelligence and security operations. Some sessions on day two include:

Tribal Knowledge: Sharing is Caring by Marcus J Carey, Author, ‘Tribe of Hackers’ & Enterprise Architect, ReliaQuest*
Effective Incident Response – Evolution & Practice by Ashwin Rajendra, IR Mgr., Vendor Incident Response Remediations, Kimberley-Clark Corporation
Ransomware as a Service – Paying the Price of (un)Preparedness by Etay Maor, Chief Security Officer, IntSights and Nick Leicht, IT Risk Mgmt. Engineer, Ulta Beauty
Keep Your Enemies Close: A Panel on Tracking Adversaries with Michael Francess, Mgr., Incident Response & Threat Intelligence, Wyndham Hotels; Andrew List, Sr. Engineer, Security Ops, Wendy’s; and Derek Thomas, Sr., Information Security Analyst, Target
Orchestration & Automation: Approaches from the Front Lines a panel with Jaime Buzzeo, Senior Manager, Threat Intelligence and Cyber Security Investigations, Marriott International; Jason Painter, Manager, Enterprise Security, Williams-Sonoma; Moderated by Brad Logan, Director, Security Engineering & Integration, RH-ISAC
Day three will tie up loose ends and narrow in on special interests that the RH-ISAC community has
identified as priorities. Sessions on the final day include:

Up Your Game With ATT&CK and SHIELD by Christina Fowler, Chief Cyber Intel Strategist, MITRE Corporation* and Taylor Transue, Senior Threat Intel Analyst, RH-ISAC
Developing an Always-Learning Culture in the Era of Digital Transformation by Ralph Sita, Co-Founder, CEO, Cybrary; Kristen Dalton, Director, Research & Education, RH-ISAC; and Dir., Security Operations and RH-ISAC Member
Leveraging the Dark Web to Enrich you Threat Intelligence Capabilities by Vanessa Aranda, Threat Intelligence Analyst, Gap and Nick Leicht, IT Risk Mgmt. Engineer, Ulta Beauty
The Power of Data Interchange to Investigate Application Attacks by Dan Woods, RVP, Threat Intelligence, F5*
CISO Executive Roundtable Discussion moderated by Rich Agostino, CISO, Target and CISO Committee Representatives
Not only can you expect great content and speakers, you can also take advantage of innovative ways to network with this community, including participating in a virtual wine tasting event brought to you by Passalacqua Winery. Each registrant will receive three samples of wine for tasting in the mail. During the tasting, registrants will learn about how each wine is made, suggested pairings, and more. Select from two events, east coast or west coast tasting, to properly enjoy during your ideal happy hour!
The sponsors of the 2020 RH-ISAC Summit want to make sure attendees don’t walk away empty handed! When you attend the RH-ISAC Summit you can enter to win one of many prizes provided by our generous sponsors including items like an Apple TV, Bose Headphones, and even a luxury vacation getaway package, brought to you by our title sponsor Shape Security!
Throughout the RH-ISAC Summit you will still have the chance to network with your peer and top cybersecurity professionals through chat, private messaging, and even scheduling 1:1 meeting, all thanks to the incredible Pathable Virtual Events platform.
The RH-ISAC Summit is the premiere cybersecurity event of the year, and we have been working hard to ensure that premiere status as we move online! Check out all the RH-ISAC Summit confirmed speakers and agenda. If you haven’t already, register today!

*indicates a keynote speaker