
The RH-ISAC Cyber Intelligence Summit agenda is brimming with keynote and breakout sessions showcasing an array of cybersecurity’s top experts. From October 2 – 4 in Dallas, Texas, attendees can partake in sessions designed to spark discussions, develop connections, and explore solutions to prominent issues cybersecurity practitioners face while working in the retail and hospitality industries. We are thrilled to join forces with title sponsor Synack and other solution providers and partners who are committed to supporting our members. Here is an overview of our incredible line-up:
Keynote: Enabling a Resilient Security Posture with Strategic Security Testing
On October 3 at 12:30 p.m., Mark Varner, CISO at Lowe’s, will join Wade Lance, Field CISO at Synack, to take the stage during lunch to discuss security testing and cyber resilience across the supply chain. They’ll share how strategic testing programs track improvements in overall security posture and can demonstrate resilience to regulators, senior leadership, and the board.
Gone in 15 minutes: Discovering and Eliminating Shadow APIs
On October 3 at 10:15 a.m., speakers Diane Brown, VP of IT risk management & CISO at Ulta Beauty, Yasmin Karimli, technology & operations EVP, cybersecurity transformation at T-Mobile, and Shreyans Mehta, CTO & founder at Cequence, will examine the subject of shadow APIs. Attendees will learn how Ulta Beauty and T-Mobile discovered their known and unknown APIs, Log4J-vulnerable servers, and exposed non-production servers, and protected them all.
Modernizing SOC: Tech Efficiency, Metrics, and Cost Savings
On October 3 at 11:30 a.m., join speakers Mike Polise, director at Security Risk Advisors, and Shawn O’Shea, global CISO at Aramark, as they discuss how to remove extraneous articles in a traditional SOC model to overcome wasteful spend, technical integration issues, and limited response capabilities. Attendees will discover how to design a future security detection universe and improve their SOC capabilities while reducing overall spend.
Follow The Crypto: Unmasking Refund Fraud as a Service Operations Through Cryptocurrency Investigations
On October 3 at 2 p.m., join speakers from Netacea, Matthew Gracey-McMinn, head of threat research, and Cyril Noel-Tagoe, principal security researcher, as they share their insights from a real-world cryptocurrency investigation into a notable refund fraud-as-a-service operation. They will showcase how they used open-source tools to quantify operations from dark web Bitcoin scams to refund-fraud-as-a-service and even NFTs.
Make Better Risk Decisions to Prevent Future Cyber Attacks
On October 3 at 2:50 p.m., join speaker Nathan Wenzler, chief security strategist at Tenable, as he explores risk mitigation strategies that provide more visibility, more context, and a better mechanism to connect technical risk to the business context. He’ll review techniques so attendees can implement those methods within their security program. This will provide a better understanding of the various risks across an attack surface, how to identify the areas to focus on first, and ways to drive a more meaningful approach to communicating about and mitigating risks before cyberattacks exploit your weaknesses.
T-Mobile Boldly Moves Forward with FIDO Passwordless Vision
On October 4 at 10 a.m., join speakers Will Coleman, principal solutions engineer at Yubico, and Henry Valentine, senior manager of cybersecurity architecture & strategy at T-Mobile, as they explore the innovation that is phishing-resistant multi-factor authentication (MFA). Attendees will learn about T-Mobile’s journey from legacy multi-factor solutions to implementing phishing-resistant MFA using modern passwordless FIDO2 protocols across retail and franchise stores, corporate environments, and call centers for employees, contractors, and partners. They will also review lessons learned from an online and brick-and-mortar retailer that can be applied to any organization.
Beyond DIY: Understanding Your Options for Modernizing Security Operations
On October 4 at 11:15 a.m., join speakers Justin Bajko, VP of strategy and business development at Expel, and Jason Goodman, global head of cyber security operations and incident response at Marriott, for a discussion about cybersecurity operations options. They’ll discuss DIY vs. outsourcing and review the managed security options available to attendees and their teams.
Digital Doppelgangers: The State of Retail Brand Impersonation Online in 2023 & How to Take Back Control of Your Name
On October 4 at 1:30 p.m., join speakers Josh Shaul, CEO at Allure Security, and Dan Holden, VP of cybersecurity at BigCommerce, as they explore how BigCommerce maintains brand trust and customer satisfaction online. In addition, they will reveal how BigCommerce applies artificial intelligence to detect and respond to online brand impersonations proactively with cost in mind. Allure Security will also present original research on the prevalence of brand impersonation of retail and hospitality brands online during 2023. Attendees will gain an understanding of how automation and going beyond lookalike domain names make it possible for brands to gain more visibility, find more online spoofs more quickly, and eradicate them before a single customer falls victim.
For more information about the RH-ISAC Cyber Intelligence Summit, including registration details and the complete line-up, please visit summit.rhisac.org.