
The retail and hospitality sector constantly faces cybersecurity concerns. Security breaches are highly publicized and can change the way a consumer views the organization and brand – years after the breach.
Collaboration within our sector is essential to combat these cyberattacks before they happen. We must come together to share cyber intelligence, best practices, tools, and learn how others battle these constant and evolving threats. The best way for us to do this is to meet in person to tackle what is most important to our industries.
The RH-ISAC is proud to present the 2020 Regional Intelligence Workshops series lineup, sponsored by SpyCloud. This year the RH-ISAC partnered with six member companies to host full-day workshops packed with compelling content delivered by the RH-ISAC, SpyCloud, and leaders in each region.
The RH-ISAC Regional Intelligence Workshops are built by members for their retail and hospitality cybersecurity practitioner peers at the tactical, operational, and strategic levels. These regional events are designed to deliver practical strategies and insights on intelligence programs, requirements, and processes.
As an attendee, you’ll be an active contributor and asked to roll up your sleeves and dive into the topics most relevant for you. Get ready to spend the day with top cybersecurity practitioners, network with peers, and walk away with new ideas for your cyber threat intelligence programs. Details and registration information for each workshop are listed below. Plan for 2020 and register today, spaces are limited!
On February 19, we’ll hold our first workshop of 2020 at Brinker International in Dallas, Texas, join us and spend the day with top retail and customer-facing cybersecurity practitioners. You’ll get to hear from several speakers, including Jeff Reynolds, cyber threat intelligence analyst and JJ Porter, IR analyst of PepsiCo as they share their best practices for Threat Informed Hunting.
The following month, on March 18, we will be on the West Coast at Salesforce in San Francisco, CA,  where you’ll hear from some of the Salesforce team including Doug Miller, director of threat intelligence and Jason Lee, vice president of security operations. Not to mention, you won’t want to miss out on what Vanessa Aranda, threat intelligence analyst from the Gap will bring to the table at this event!
And just announced,  on March 31, will head up to the Pacific Northwest to the headquarters of AT&T in Seattle, WA, you’ll have an opportunity to participate in facilitated discussions from the RH-ISAC’s VP of Intelligence Carlos Kizzee on member approaches to holistic security operations.
On April 14, roll up your sleeves and dive in to the industry-relevant topics with Alex Belgard, team lead, network & security of Crutchfield Corporation, as we head back to the East Coast at Lowe’s in Charlotte, NC.
We will travel up the coast on April 28 to Staples in Boston, MA where you’ll be able to network with peers and participate in a well-rounded day of discussions and presentations. You won’t want to miss Chip Witt, of Spycloud, discussing the nuances of a security breach from a criminal perspective in Timeline of a Breach
Finally, on May 13, we will round out our workshops with Abercrombie & Fitch in Columbus, OH where Pam Gerber, cyber operations section lead at Goodyear, will present. This workshop will have you walking with new ideas for your cyber threat intelligence programs.
Each workshop starts with registration, breakfast, and networking at 8 AM, with the program running from 9 AM – 4 PM. A happy hour concludes the day from 4 – 6 PM, where you’ll be able to strengthen the relationships built during the day and continue the discussion.
We look forward to this lineup of events, coming to a city near you! Contact RH-ISAC at events@www.rhisac.org to register or for questions on eligibility. Registration is subject to availability.
Eligible workshop participants are cybersecurity practitioners from retailers, restaurants, hotels, gaming casinos, food retailers, consumer products and other consumer-facing companies. Invitations will be extended to eligible, current RH-ISAC members and non-member practitioners who are eligible for RH-ISAC Core membership and to other attendees based on regional proximity.
