
Washington, DC – Today, Retail and Hospitality Information Sharing and Analysis Center (RH-ISAC) announced the formation of the Gaming and Hospitality Cybersecurity Alliance (GHCA), a dedicated information and intelligence sharing group within the RH-ISAC. MGM Resorts International will co-chair the alliance in partnership with several of the largest global gaming and hospitality companies such as Hyatt Hotels & Resorts, among others.
A successful cyber-attack can compromise customer accounts, weaken infrastructure, harm brand reputation, and also disrupt the supply chain. In an effort to collaborate against these threats, the RH-ISAC partnered with leading gaming and hospitality companies to form the GHCA. Housed within the RH-ISAC, the group’s mission is to foster a secure, collaborative forum for gaming, hospitality, and entertainment organizations to share threat intelligence. Information shared translates to detection, mitigation, and improved response capabilities to reduce business risks, protect customer accounts, and create safer experiences within our ecosystem.
“GHCA members offer a vast array of services and experiences in entertainment, gaming, sporting events, dining, shopping and hospitality. Recognizing we are stronger acting against bad actors together, our goal for the GHCA community is to build trust and share information and actionable intelligence which will strengthen not only each company but our industries,” said GHCA Co-Chair Scott Howitt, senior vice president and chief information security officer at MGM Resorts International and Board Member of the RH-ISAC.

The RH-ISAC is an intelligence and information sharing community comprised of strategic leaders and technical practitioners from over 100 customer-facing companies representing over 500 eCommerce, retail, hotel, restaurant, consumer product manufacturer, hotel, and gaming property brands. As members of the RH-ISAC, companies within the GHCA have the needed increased visibility of and context on observed threats in the ecosystem such as point-of-sale (PoS), reward points, gift card and other fraud activities, attacks focused on eCommerce/domains, while also accessing the private forum to facilitate discussion, sharing and benefit from dedicated intelligence analysis of gaming and hospitality specific threats.
“Cybersecurity is a high-priority risk that not only affects all aspects of a company, but also its industry. Facilitated information sharing and intel analysis within the GHCA will strengthen our collective defense capabilities and improve the overall security of the broader ecosystem,” said Suzie Squier, Executive Director of Retail and Hospitality Information Sharing and Analysis Center, the Retail ISAC.

Learn more about the GHCA.
###
Retail Cyber Intelligence Sharing Center (RH-ISAC), the Retail ISAC
The RH-ISAC is the trusted cybersecurity community for retailers, consumer products, grocers, hotels, gaming, restaurants, and cybersecurity industry partners worldwide. The RH-ISAC supports its member base, representing over $1 Trillion in annual revenue, by serving as the conduit for collaboration, threat and best practice sharing, and cooperation. Through building and sustaining valuable programs, partnerships, products and opportunities, the RH-ISAC enables its members to grow their trust-based relationships, strategic knowledge and tactical capabilities. For more information on RH-ISAC membership and benefits visit us at our home page https://rhisac.org.