
Retail and Hospitality Information Sharing and Analysis Center (RH-ISAC) announces Cyber Thursdays, an educational webinar series they will lead in 2018. Beginning in February, the RH-ISAC will host one Cyber Thursday webinar series one Thursday each month. In collaboration with its members, the organization will facilitate up to four sessions of fresh content each Cyber Thursday designed around current threats impacting the retail industry, education on cyber defense and information sharing. The series will include a combination of virtual discussions, member-driven content and discussion and RH-ISAC intelligence updates.

The RH-ISAC is collaborating with strategic partners and member companies to develop content. Webinars are open to RH-ISAC Core Members only unless otherwise specified. February 15 will be the first RH-ISAC Cyber Thursday of 2018, including the following sessions:

11:00 am-12:00 pm CST: Patriots vs. Mercenaries with Don Yaeger
In a fast paced and forever changing retail cybersecurity environment, how can strategic leaders build a team of patriots? How do they coach their workforce to focus on the teams’ collective purpose, and why does it matter? The concept of patriots vs. mercenaries embodies an approach to psychological leadership that urges its members to embody the idea that their work is important, and that every day these patriots are is excited to be a participant on the team. Don Yaeger facilitates an important and concentrated webinar discussion around leadership and building a cybersecurity team of individuals who support, defend, and devote themselves to their profession.

12:30 pm-1:30 pm CST: New Attack Trends in Retail**
Every day, retailers battle ongoing attacks on their web and mobile applications. Special events, however, attract not only higher volumes of fraud but also new attack techniques. On February 15th, Shape is partnering with Retail and Hospitality Information Sharing and Analysis Center (RH-ISAC) to facilitate a presentation on new attack trends in retail. join Mengmeng Chen,
retail threat intelligence lead at Shape Security, as she covers:


Top 3 application attacks observed in the retail industry
Attack trends during promotional events
Attack techniques observed during Black Friday/Cyber Monday on Top 10 Retailers
**Open to RH-ISAC members and eligible retail cybersecurity practitioners. Email events@RH-ISAC.org today to confirm your eligibility and RSVP.

2:00 pm-2:30 pm CST: RH-ISAC Virtual Discussion
February kicks off RH-ISAC's Virtual Discussions. Join Executive Director Suzie Squier as she leads a discussion on a recent request for information regarding NIST readiness/maturity assessment and presentations to board/senior executives generated a good bit of interest.
Moving forward, we’ll hold a series of webinars on a dedicated Thursday each month of 2018. Mark your calendar with Q1 and Q2 dates below!
2018 Cyber Thursday Dates:

February 15
March 1
April 12
May 3
June 7

Interested in facilitating a session? Ideas on topics, speakers, format or flow? Reach out to events@RH-ISAC.org today for more information.