
Over the past year and a half, the retail and hospitality verticals have been challenged, but there are some bright spots – digital investments and innovations have been at the center of helping many organizations stay ahead. Having digital readiness and a robust cybersecurity offering is key to growth in this sector. We are thrilled to announce that we have become a member of the Retail and Hospitality Information Security and Analysis Center (RH-ISAC). We’re excited to help improve retail and hospitality cybersecurity. To that end, we are partnering with several retail and hospitality companies and technologies to drive thought leadership, cybersecurity platforms and solutions to help mitigate the biggest cybersecurity attacks.
Retailers have seen tremendous growth in digital. In order to meet consumer expectations in every channel and drive mobile-associate empowerment and supply chain excellence, end-to-end security is key to sustainable innovation. At Palo Alto Networks, we are prepared to help retailers meet today’s toughest cybersecurity challenges with a robust set of end-to-end security platforms – whether you’re facing digital skimming, ransomware, bot attacks, IoT, mobile app hijacking, or many other forms of attack. In fact, over the past several years, digital skimming has doubled (according to the Verizon 2020 Data Breach Investigations Report); there has been a 70% increase in the number of phishing attacks (according to a recent Gartner survey); and 57% of IoT devices are vulnerable to medium or high severity cyber attacks (according to the 2020 Unit 42 IoT Threat Report).
As a member of the RH-ISAC community, we are well positioned to help retailers and hoteliers remain secure while helping shape current and future solutions that allow businesses to focus on key goals of growth, revenue and customer acquisition. Suzie Squier, president of RH-ISAC, says, “Palo Alto Networks excels when it comes to cybersecurity from cloud, endpoint, storage to supply chain, and we are thrilled for the new partnership that Palo Alto Networks will bring to the retail, hospitality, and travel cybersecurity community. Never has cybersecurity been more important than it is today, and we have the right members to help us continue to drive strategic thought leadership and technologies for the retail, hospitality, and travel sector worldwide.”
Our security platforms are deployed in 42 out of the top 50 retailers in the world and have robust sets of offerings from cloud security, endpoint security, store security and digital readiness, mobile users and IoT security. In addition, we have a world-class intelligence organization – Unit 42 – which provides expertise in adversary tactics, techniques and procedures. We have threat intel that enables rapid and consistent protection across products and provides best practices for preventing new and unknown threats.
We pride ourselves on being well-respected in the industry. Some of these accomplishments include being a nine-time Leader in Gartner Magic Quadrant for Network Firewalls, receiving Gartner’s Customers’ Choice distinction in the Gartner Peer Insights ‘Voice of the Customer’: WAN Edge Infrastructure 2021, and achieving the best combined prevention and detection in round three of MITRE ATT&CK for endpoint protection. We are committed to providing quality products to solve the biggest challenges for retailers and hospitality companies, and to supporting long-term protection.
Being part of RH-ISAC, we will continue to partner with retailers, hoteliers and technology companies to meet cybersecurity needs for today and into the future. Palo Alto Networks is committed to supporting retailers not only with innovation, but also end-to-end security that will enable them for years to come.
Learn more about how Palo Alto Networks can help improve retail and hospitality cybersecurity.
Learn more information about RH–ISAC.