
It's National Cyber Security Awareness Month (NCSAM) 2019! RH-ISAC is proud to celebrate this year as an official NCSAM Champion.
Held every October, NCSAM is a collaborative effort between government and industry to raise awareness about the importance of cybersecurity and ensure safe practices online. Now in its 16th year, NCSAM continues to build momentum and impact with the ultimate goal of enhancing cybersecurity. The month is dedicated to continuing cyber education and keeping the digital world secure. NCSAM is also a great time for organizations to review cybersecurity policies, assess security preparedness and educate employees about cybersecurity responsibilities.
This year’s main effort is to encourage all to take proactive steps to enable lasting, positive cybersecurity behavior change. Protecting against cyber threats is a critical challenge for organizations of all sizes in both the public and private sectors and serves as a constant reminder of the need to promote cybersecurity awareness across the Nation.  NCSAM highlights the importance of empowering citizens, businesses, government, and schools to improve their cybersecurity preparedness. It reminds us that being more secure online is a shared responsibility and creating a safer cyber environment requires engagement from the entire American community.
Joining the RH-ISAC is one of the best ways organizations can protect themselves and their employees against cyber threats and vulnerabilities while taking an active stance in safeguarding the retail and hospitality sector. This October contact membership@www.rhisac.org to learn how you can join RH-ISAC!
NCSAM 2019 emphasizes accountability and stresses the importance of taking proactive steps to enhance cybersecurity. This year’s slogan – Own IT. Secure IT. Protect IT. – focuses on key areas including citizen privacy, consumer devices, and e-commerce security.
"Own IT."
The number of devices connected to the Internet is increasing at an exponential rate, and this makes it even more important to understand your digital profile and the potential for cybersecurity threats. OWN your online safety by taking proactive steps to ensure your information is secure.
"Secure IT."
Technology is evolving, as are the tactics used by cybercriminals to obtain your, your family’s, or your company’s data for financial gain. SECURE your devices and accounts with added layers of security.
"Protect IT."
Understanding how to keep your digital profile safe will help protect you from cybercrime. The ways cybercriminals can gain access to your information is constantly evolving, which means everyone must work to PROTECT their information by practicing good cyber hygiene at home and in the workplace.
For NCSAM 2019, let’s try to raise awareness, review current security plans, and figure out ways to become safe and secure online. During October, RH-ISAC will recognize the month with through several blog posts and other cybersecurity issues. Stay tuned and visit our blog often throughout NCSAM!