
This fall the RH-ISAC team is thrilled to bring you the 2020 RH-ISAC Cyber Intelligence Summit in a new and innovative format! With extensive input and strong support from the RH-ISAC Board of Directors and member community, we are transforming the RH-ISAC Summit to a fully virtual program. We’ll be extending the program to three-days – each day focusing on a different attendee track type – and pushing the date back to October 6-8, 2020, allowing for more preparation and training time for speakers, sponsors, and other key stakeholders.
 
The RH-ISAC Summit will also now be a free event for all retail and hospitality industry organizations. As you know, the impacts of COVID-19 have rippled far and wide, affecting companies and individuals on both professional and personal levels. We’re working hard to define our best path forward for continuing to deliver strong and meaningful experiences that drive the support that retail and hospitality cybersecurity leaders need most during these times. We want to help the industry as a whole and believe providing a free virtual event will encourage increased learning throughout our sector.
 
Our team looks forward to gathering in a socially responsible way and eliminating barriers involved with in-person events. We are partnering closely with our members to translate our virtual event into new opportunities and wins for everyone involved! This transformation will bring compelling value and needed collaboration to the community this fall. 
 
The most important thing we can do now for the retail and hospitality cybersecurity community is show support wherever possible. We’re proud to meet this moment and offer a socially responsible way for our members to gather, share, and learn from one another during these unprecedented times.
 
Register for the RH-ISAC Summit today! We are looking forward to seeing you on webcam in October! If you’re interested in presenting at the Summit or if you have any questions about this program, please contact our events team at events@www.rhisac.org.