
We’re just about two months away from the 2018 Retail Cyber Intelligence Summit in Denver. The RH-ISAC will have organized more than 20 sessions to help members better prepare for future challenges in cyber security. This year’s Summit follows our tradition of an RH-ISAC member-driven agenda with sessions on operational metrics, APTs, incident response planning and a whole lot more—and I hope you’ve made plans to join us. If you haven’t yet registered, check out the Summit website to complete your registration and book your hotel.
I always look forward to this gathering. It is unique in convening RH-ISAC members from around the globe—people who don’t always get the chance to meet in person with so many of their peers and colleagues. The quality of presentations has been there since the first Summit in 2016 and this year is no exception. The fact that we’re in scenic, vibrant Denver is icing on the cake.
I’m especially excited about this year’s agenda. We’re fortunate to be convening sessions featuring thought leaders from across the membership we serve. Sessions are focused upon practitioner perspectives on the challenges CISOs and their teams are facing every day; there is something of value for all attendees. Our keynote speakers include:

Robert Herjavec—IT entrepreneur and Founder & CEO of Herjavec Group, Robert Herjavec, will explore evolving technology trends, and the rising cyber security threats we face personally and professionally on a daily basis.
LTG John Mulholland (Ret)—In this keynote presentation, Mulholland shares leadership lessons learned leading men in combat, and how he led his 12 Strong teams in this high-risk operation that within sixty days brought down the Taliban regime.
The Birds of a Feather luncheon promises to be a forum for exploration of numerous issues and another opportunity to engage all of our stakeholders in meaningful discourse.
I hope you’ll join us at this year’s Retail Cyber Intelligence Summit. I also hope you’ll keep providing your input in our community—after all, we know that we are stronger together!
