
The RH-ISAC is proud to announce that Theresa Payton, the first female White House chief information officer and a leading cybersecurity expert, will be a keynote speaker at the virtual 2020 RH-ISAC Cyber Intelligence Summit on October 6-8, 2020.

You may recognize Theresa as one of the “Top 25 Most Influential People in Security” by Security Magazine or from reading 100 Fascinating Women Fighting Cybercrime and most recently as the 2019 Woman Cybersecurity Leader of the Year. As the author of several publications on IT strategy and cybersecurity, including Manipulated: Inside the Cyberwar to Hijack Elections and Distort the Truth, scheduled for release in June 2020, it is easy to see the strong impact she is making on the industry.
Theresa understands the critical role that retail and hospitality cybersecurity leaders play across the enterprise and the nation. She will captivate you with her experiences as a veteran cybercrime fighter, her anecdotes and insights, and is sure to leave you inspired and reinvigorated to face unprecedented challenges in the cybersecurity landscape.

Theresa’s keynote is one of many you’ll see at the 2020 RH-ISAC Summit, where we bring together cybersecurity professionals for a collaborative event that attendees have said is a “must attend” for the retail and hospitality industries.
Last year’s RH-ISAC Summit included keynotes and breakout sessions led by both practitioners – from such companies like Ulta, Starbucks, Hyatt, and Target – and industry-leading solution providers. As with last year, this year’s plan is to include a pre-Summit tabletop exercise and possible committee meetings. Some of the highest rated sessions from last year were:

Navigating Global Cyber Threats
Lessons Learned from a Major Former Hacker
Ask and You Shall Receive: Ulta Beauty’s Journey to CTI
Responding to POS Skimmers & Shimmers
Securing the Supply Chain
Leveraging MITRE ATT&CK for Detection, Analysis & Defense
We are excited about the how the virtual experience will bring to our whole community together and we’re hoping to see you there. If you’re interested in more than just attending, fill out our Call for Speakers today. Practitioner-led presentations are the most highly rated sessions that we have, so share your expertise and experience with the community.
Register now or find out more on the 2020 RH-ISAC Summit website here.