
As a retailer or hospitality professional, we know that it is important to you to ensure that you are securing payment data effectively for your customers and for your business. It is also important for you to have a voice when it comes to the future of securing payment data through the ongoing development of security standards such as PCI DSS v4.0.
Collaboration is at the heart of the PCI Security Standards Council’s mission to help secure payment data globally. This year, the PCI Security Standards Council announced its Associate Participating Organization (PO) Program. As an Associate PO, you will have exclusive opportunities that can benefit your business and have an impact on the payments industry.
PCI Security Standards Council (PCI SSC) Associate Participating Organizations (APOs) are vital contributors to the mission of helping secure payment data globally. As an APO, you join a growing community of organizations and individuals dedicated to the development, promotion, and ongoing improvement of payment security standards and resources.
The following are five reasons organizations should join PCI SSC as an Associate Participating Organization:

Input on Standards: Participating organizations have the opportunity to provide feedback and contribute to the development of security standards. This can help ensure that standards are practical and effective and can also help organizations stay ahead of evolving threats.
Credibility and Recognition: Being a Participating Organization can demonstrate a commitment to security and can help organizations build credibility and gain recognition within the industry. This can be especially important for companies that handle sensitive payment data.
Networking Opportunities: By joining the PCI SSC, you get to collaborate with the top minds in the payment security industry. Participating in PCI SSC events and activities can provide networking opportunities and allow organizations to connect with other industry leaders and experts.
Deeper Payment Security Knowledge: Depending on your role in the payment card industry, organizations may be required to comply with PCI Standards. Participating in the development of these standards can help organizations better understand their requirements and prepare for their assessment.
Access to Resources: Participating organizations have access to a variety of payment security resources, including complimentary passes to Council in-person events, discounted and complimentary payment security training and complimentary passes to a video library of payment security industry presentations. They can also participate in special interest groups and forums where they can discuss security issues and best practices with other leaders in payment security. See the Participating Organization page for more information on benefits and discounts*.
* Benefits and discounts subject to change.