
We’re gearing up for next month’s RSA Conference, where we’ll have the chance to connect with so many of our members! If you’re like others we’ve spoken to, you’ll want to make the most of your time in San Francisco between the great conference agenda sessions, abundance of social events, learning about the latest and greatest on the technology solutions floor, and carving out time to connect with peers.
Whether you thrive on the RSA Conference experience or simply tolerate it, we have one event that you’re going to want to attend.
On February 25 from 7:30 – 9:30 AM, we’ll host our second annual CISO Networking Breakfast for retail and hospitality industry CISOs. Join fellow CISOs, RH-ISAC leaders, and leading experts from Forcepoint for this private event and enjoy focused networking time with peers and an interactive executive-level discussion of which strategic investments are delivering game-changing results for retail and hospitality CISOs.
One of the key benefits of being at RSA is to spend time with industry experts and colleagues to share insights from the cybersecurity frontlines, but also to catch up on the latest developments in the product market. Our sponsor and co-host, Forcepoint, will be at the CISO breakfast discussing the latest trends they are seeing.
In line with the 2020 Conference theme, this interactive discussion includes shared experiences and strategies incorporating the Human Element, such as:

Adaptive approaches to risk and vulnerability management
Strategies that have had the greatest impact on breach resilience, incident mitigation, and remediation
Investments in talent
We hope that you’ll join us along with fellow senior cybersecurity executives from leading retail and hospitality brands for this private gathering. For more information visit: https://rhisac.org/event/rhisac-ciso-networking-breakfast-rsa/.
The RH-ISAC is also co-hosting the TruBREWS event with TruSTAR on February 24 from 5 – 8 PM PT at the Heavybit HQ. This California craft beer tasting is a great way to kick-off RSA and talk security with co-hosts IBM, LA Cyber Lab, Cloud Security Alliance, IT-ISAC, and TAG. This exclusive, invite-only event has limited spaces, be sure to email events@www.rhisac.org for more information.
Looking forward to seeing you there!
