
RH-ISAC is excited to announce the release of its newest vehicle for information sharing, the Best Practices Podcast. This podcast, sponsored by Fortinet and hosted by RH-ISAC’s Director of CTI Production & Analytics, Aaron Perkins, features interviews with RH-ISAC members sharing information from their security programs that listeners can apply to improve their own organization’s strategies and tactics. Episodes will be no longer than 30 minutes and are available exclusively to RH-ISAC members.
In the first episode, Aaron chats with David Xu, Senior Team Lead, Threat & Vulnerability Management at Canadian Tire on the topic of digital transformation. Digital transformation is such a huge undertaking. It can seem overwhelming; where do you even start? David shares how Canadian Tire has created a culture in which product owners feel empowered to be a part of this transformation. Instead of a top-down approach where leadership dictates, at Canadian Tire, executives set goals for the organization, but product owners are able to contribute to the “how” of reaching those goals, which has created a culture of trust and allowed its cybersecurity professionals to innovate.
In episode two, Aaron interviews a familiar face: former RH-ISAC analyst, Seth Monteleone, who is now Lead Analyst at Lowe’s and one of the top contributors in RH-ISAC’s member community. They talk about some of the most common cybersecurity threats that Lowe’s is seeing, including credential harvesting, gift-card scams, socially engineered phishing scams, and the importance of cybersecurity awareness training for employees.
Finally, in pilot episode three, Aaron sits down with staff from Fortinet to discuss what makes the company’s products unique within the cybersecurity space. Courtney Radke, Retail CISO, Principal Architect, and Derek Manky, Global Security Strategist FortiGuard, discuss Fortinet’s commitment to innovation (the company holds more than 800 patents!) and their flexibility to look at the entire spectrum of threats through FortiGuard Labs, an in-house threat intelligence platform and research organization. They share some tips for defense against ransomware and discuss the importance of employee education to prevent and react to a ransomware attack.
These three episodes are available exclusively to RH-ISAC members by visiting https://sso-rhisac.force.com, logging in with your Member Exchange login, and clicking on “uStudio.” Episodes can also be downloaded on the uStudio app. View the full instructions about how to access the podcast here by logging into Member Exchange.  Make sure you follow the Best Practices Podcast so you can be notified about new episodes, which will be dropped each month!
If you’re interested in being a guest on an upcoming episode of the podcast, reach out to host, Aaron Perkins.