
The RH-ISAC team recently wrapped up our second annual Retail Cyber Intelligence Summit. Our whole team spent a handful of days in Chicago to facilitate a wildly successful (I may be biased) conference for the elite retail cybersecurity practitioner community. We’ve compiled our story of these impactful days in a Post Conference Report, click the button to check it out!
Summit Report
After the event, I asked our newest team member, Account Development Manager Corey Nihlean, to take a few moments to reflect on her first experience of a RH-ISAC event. Below are a few answers I’d like to share with you:
What surprised me: Attendee engagement and polling options
As the first day progressed, I was surprised by how engaged our members were during the sessions. In my experience, when you go to conferences or events, half the time people are just there for one or two specific sessions or, let’s be honest, the free food :). What I liked was the clear level of engagement present in each session. We saw that demonstrated by the number of questions from the audience – 230 users logged into the conference application, 149 questions were asked, 940 responded to polls, and 142 session evaluations were submitted. Impressive if you ask me!
Highlight of Event: Member Gala
I personally really enjoyed our member Gala. This was my first chance to see how the RH-ISAC retail practitioner community interact with one another. All members happily enjoyed their peers in this intimate setting, even though most would be considered competitors to the outside world. They bonded and discussed like they were all old friends. All willing to be there for each other and help answer questions.
Excited about for next year: Taking the Retail Cyber Intelligence Summit to the next level
I am excited about how we can make next year bigger and better than ever before! Coming out of the summit, we’ve developed a content committee that will help garner more rich content for our members. We’re also taking all attendee feedback seriously and aim to achieve the goals set by our member community. With our efforts over the coming months, we’ll gain a larger pool of members for next year’s event. I know our RH-ISAC team is always trying to find ways to improve additional value to our community.
