
In October 2021, RH-ISAC launched a members-only podcast highlighting best practices in cybersecurity. RH-ISAC is excited to announce our podcast is now moving public in a newly revised format and will be available to members and non-members alike on major podcast platforms. Part of RH-ISAC’s mission is to be a trusted cybersecurity resource for the entire retail and hospitality industry. Making the podcast publicly accessible will allow a broader audience to learn from and enjoy the podcast content.
The new podcast will include a rotating cast of hosts and guests, including Core and Associate Members, industry thought leaders, and RH-ISAC staff. Episodes will remain no longer than 30 minutes, with segments such as interviews, threat intelligence reports, trends analysis, and more.
The first public episode, 2021 CISO Benchmark Trends, is now available. This episode features moderator Julia Hare, editor-in-chief of RETHINK Retail, and panelists Courtney Radke, retail CISO, principal architect at Fortinet, Bryon Hundley, RH-ISAC VP of intelligence, and Diane Brown, vice president of IT risk management and CISO at Ulta, discussing top initiatives for CISOs in 2022. The panelists discuss how their organizations are prioritizing critical projects like ransomware planning and implementation of multi-cloud environments, as well as limitations, such as lack of security awareness across company staff. for CISOs in 2022. The panelists discuss how their organizations are prioritizing critical projects like ransomware planning and implementation of multi-cloud environments, as well as limitations, such as lack of security awareness across company staff.
In March, the podcast will feature interviews celebrating Women’s History Month, including a chat with WiCyS Executive Director Lynn Dohm, and a panel discussion on diversity with female CISOs from CVS Health and International Flavors & Fragrances. Subscribe to the RH-ISAC podcast to receive notifications for new episodes.
Archived episodes of the Best Practices podcast are still available to RH-ISAC members on Member Exchange.