
	   


Disinformation campaigns for political purposes are deeply rooted in cybercriminal endeavors, with threat actors relying on actions specific to financially-motivated attacks to attain their goals.

Criminal syndicates running black SEO (search engine optimization), carding, ransomware, or network intrusion activities lend their skills and experience to serve political agendas for various entities. Across the line, professionals are on the job.

Not just Russian providers

An investigation from Advanced Intelligence (AdvIntel) and Nine Mile Security Group (NMSG) researchers shows that cybercriminals can successfully adapt their methods for "intrusive social actions into the U.S. environments."


1/1





Skip Ad
 
Continue watchingafter the adVisit Advertiser websiteGO TO PAGE.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot{position:absolute;top:0;left:0;grid-area:adslot;opacity:0;background:none;width:100%;height:100%}.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot.cnx-ad-bid-slot-selected{opacity:1;z-index:10}.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot{display:flex;position:absolute;top:0;left:0;justify-content:center;align-items:center;width:100%;height:100%;overflow:hidden}.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot video,.cnx-non-linear-ad-container video.cnx-ad-slot{background-color:unset}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot{position:absolute;top:0;left:0;grid-area:adslot;opacity:0;background:#f4f4f4;width:100%;height:100%}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot.cnx-ad-bid-slot-selected{opacity:1;z-index:10}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot{display:flex;position:absolute;top:0;left:0;justify-content:center;align-items:center;width:100%;height:100%;overflow:hidden}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot div{background-color:rgba(0,0,0,0) !important}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot iframe{box-sizing:border-box;border:3px solid #fff !important;color-scheme:none}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot iframe:not([id]){border:none !important}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot-video-type iframe{border:none !important}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot video,.cnx-ad-container video.cnx-ad-slot{background-color:#f4f4f4}For their project, the researchers turned to the dark web where it took less than two weeks to find 40 experienced cybercriminals with a "coherent strategy" ready to deploy the operation the next day. Budget spent in this stage: $0.

The search for disinformation campaign enablers and experts was on Russian-speaking forums because they typically provide access to more sophisticated and experienced crime groups.

Not all actors engaged were Russian, though. Some spoke the language but were clearly not native. Non-Russian participants claimed to be from various regions of the world (MENA, the European Union, China, South Asia, Oceania).


"We assess with a high level of confidence that the international actors are attracted to the infrastructural and network capabilities of Russian-speaking top-tier forums." Advanced Intelligence


Cybercriminals tactics

What soon became clear to the researchers was that the contractors applied their cybercriminal knowledge to politically motivated campaigns.

More precisely, tactics from carding and financial fraud, ransomware, network intrusions, web fraud, and traffic manipulation were all presented as valid for disinformation offensives.

Creating fake social media accounts that look real and bypass a platform's fraud detection algorithms to spread false info is a process very similar to what carders use to run online credit card fraud.

Experienced carders can make a purchase with a stolen card without being detected due to a complex process that ultimately makes it look like the action was done by the card owner.

The same skills and infrastructure can be used to operate a stolen or newly created sockpuppet account to spread political content. Also, "carders offer to use their existing network of impersonated financial accounts to manage all the payments needed for the meddling operation."

The efforts also spread to the physical world where banners, cold-calling, flyers, and provocations become the tools of choice to sway public opinion - activities that may fall on the shoulders of teams typically providing drop services (infrastructure of fake identities, IDs, warehouses, vehicles) to carders.

Just like ransomware groups rely on network intrusion experts to deploy their payload, so could a breach serve these false information efforts. Exposing correspondence or financial records can cause reputation damage that is beneficial for an adversary, while ransomware can disrupt activity at a critical time.

Even if the intrusion is unsuccessful, the threat actor can report a data breach on prominent underground forums only to be picked up by affiliates that spread the rumor of a cyber attack on social media.

Success needs a well-laid plan

Without a doubt, political disinformation requires much more resources, skills, and effort than cybercriminal ventures. A mastermind needs the capabilities of threat actors with various backgrounds in order to execute a successful plan.

Content writers that can identify and finely exploit sensitivities of targeted demographics and regions are just one piece of the puzzle.

This group's mission, according joint research from AdvIntel and NMSG, is to produce the context for promoting a specific political group. This is achieved through carefully organized propaganda that first creates political apathy by tackling reactive issues, and builds on existing content related to divisive matters.

Some of the topics the researchers saw pursued by this group relate to racial division, environmental issues, ethnic and confessional matters, immigration, crime rates, police brutality, unemployment, urban/rural discrepancies, utility pricing, and housing crisis.

From the total of 40 actors the researchers talked to, six of them provided content writing services with political notes as well as clear strategies to achieve the goal. They claimed to be from countries in the European Union and Eastern Europe.


"It is noteworthy that fake news per se is not widely mentioned by the actors, as direct disinformation is found to be inefficient since it triggers account bans. Instead, they prefer to focus on the content which does not directly misinform the audience, by rather shift the emphasis in a disproportional way, facilitating the erosion of political culture and minimizing the opportunity for a discussion or a search for common ground emerging between opposite political views." - Advanced Intelligence


Through their narrative, they aim to decrease the voting rate by painting political candidates as manipulators serving their group's interests. This way, a more vocal political group that rates lower in polls can benefit from their supporters' votes and achieve a better percentage.

According to the researchers, campaigns from these actors are well above the activity of the so-called troll farms involved in unsystematic mass-spreading of provocative messages.

Each step is a continuation of the previous one and all converge to a clear goal that serves a specific political agenda. The researchers believe that these actors are skilled advertisers treating political meddling as a marketing campaign.


Strategy document from threat actors detailing all aspects of the meddling campaign

The budget needed for engaging proficient content writers was $7,000.

Promoting shady content

Obviously, this carefully created content would be a waste of effort and talent without promoting it properly. For this, a second group intervenes for aggressive distribution.

One actor the researchers talked to works for an agency in Eastern Europe and their methods ensure boosting the exposure of dubious content on social media platforms.

They rely on sending out messages in big numbers and thousands of cold-calls to support the promotion. A human-based approach is preferred to automation because detection is more difficult for platform moderators.

Another actor, a carder specialized in web fraud on YouTube and Google search engine agreed to the better effects of customized solutions compared to bots and automation.


"Gantz promotes content by sharing the video as a YouTube pre-roll ads via Google AdWords. They use Google AdWords feature of selecting a targeted audience based on multiple parameters which makes the promotion of political content much more efficient." - Advanced Intelligence


Since videos violating the platform's terms may take days until it is pulled, multiple accounts are used to distribute radical divisive content. This method allows for reaching millions (at least 10) of users in a window of 24-48 hours.


stats for video shown for one hour

All this is supported by a significant budget and infrastructure that provides anonymity and anti-fraud systems specifically configured for impersonation.

Gantz's price to run a 5-7 seconds advertisement to 10 million viewers using the actor's infrastructure and skills was $87,000. A group planning a sophisticated operation that influences election results in an important country would have no trouble paying the money.

Espionage and sabotage

This part is the responsibility of established cybercriminal groups specialized in network intrusion jobs. They don't normally care about the end goal, all they need is a target and to get paid for their work.

Three actors responded to the researchers, demanding around $5,000 to breach the victim's networks and uploading a ransomware threat.

“​Achilles ” an Iranian (likely) threat actor who was responsible for the 2018 Austal defense shipbuilder breach.
	“​Amiak​” Group, a Russian-speaking ransomware syndicate who claims to have breached the LAPD databases.
	“Vestl”, a Russian-speaking hacker who offered access to a US police station and was able to provide evidence of this breach.
Yelisey Boguslavskiy, director of security research at Advanced Intelligence, says that other network intruders were contacted during this research.

One of them, called 'b.wanted,' offered to sell access to the network of a defense contractor in Virginia that provides "managerial, technical, and cyber solutions to numerous US state entities, including military and security departments." The intruder claimed to have access to 100 workstations on the victim's network.


b.wanted inside the defense contractor's network (CobaltStrike session)

'b.wanted' boasted RDP access as well as an inside botnet that was actively collecting credentials that allowed identifying logins belonging to federal government customers.'

Based on the language used and operational analysis, Boguslavskiy believes that b.wanted is connected to the FXMSP hackers that offered access to the networks of three antivirus vendors earlier this year.

On-the-ground action

Physical interference supports the digital efforts for political influencing. This task is often given to individuals that run drop services, receiving items purchased with stolen cards and shipping them to the country of a cybercriminal group or reselling them and sending the proceeds.

One such group generating its income this way is called Gershuni and operates in New York and Chicago. Boguslavskiy believes their monthly profits are up to $400,000.

Networks like Gershuni can handle logistics on the ground. Banners, printing and distributing flyers at rallies, organizing rallies, or carrying fake physical attacks to pin on the opponent group. In a few words, causing disruption and stirring up spirits.

The Gershuni group provided the following services for sustaining a criminal enterprise:

Legalization: fictitious or cover enterprises, legal businesses, etc
	Full-time staff
	Freight cars and trucks
	Warehouses
	Transportation, living, and renting costs of moving into the US
	Excellent knowledge of English
	Patience in waiting for several months of low revenues, while the service is establishing its niche in the market
Their services would cost around $15,000.

Just like the other cybercriminal groups with skills useful for a political meddling campaign, drop operatives are professionals. They take advantage of police decentralization across the U.S., use low-risk routes for their errands and have good knowledge of district jurisdiction and how it all works.

They set up warehouses in different districts than other operations so that even if a member of the group is caught, local police cannot launch a full investigation into the entire network. To avoid state troopers, they abide by the traffic rules.

Applied to an abstract scenario the researchers proposed to the cybercriminals they interacted with, the cost of a political influencing operation can be less than $100,000, excluding the intrusion and physical actions, which would greatly add to the complexity of the campaign.

The example presented by the researchers involved a non-existent state with a population of 10-15 million going through Congressional elections.

The model was not based on any real U.S. communities, jurisdictions or locations, specifically to avoid any damage or influence (even indirect) to social, cultural, or political values in the country.

	   

.ia_ad {
    background-color: #f0f6ff;
    width: 95%;
    max-width: 800px;
    margin: 15px auto;
    border-radius: 8px;
    border: 1px solid #d6ddee;
    display: flex;
    align-items: stretch;
    padding: 0;
    overflow: hidden;
}

.ia_lef {
    flex: 1;
    max-width: 200px;
    height: auto;
    display: flex;
    align-items: stretch;
}

.ia_lef a {
    display: flex;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
}


.ia_lef a img {
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
    object-fit: cover;
    border-radius: 8px 0 0 8px;
    margin: 0;
    display: block;
}

.ia_rig {
    flex: 2;
    padding: 10px;
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: column;
    justify-content: center;
}

.ia_rig h2 {
    font-size: 17px !important;
    font-weight: 700;
    color: #333;
    line-height: 1.4;
    font-family: Georgia, "Times New Roman", Times, serif;
    margin: 0 0 14px 0;
}

.ia_rig p {
    font-weight: bold;
    font-size: 14px;
    margin: 0 0 clamp(6px, 2vw, 14px) 0;
}

.ia_button {
    background-color: #FFF;
    border: 1px solid #3b59aa;
    color: black;
    text-align: center;
    text-decoration: none;
    border-radius: 8px;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 16px;
    font-weight: bold;
    cursor: pointer;
    padding: 10px 20px;
    width: fit-content;
}

.ia_button a {
    text-decoration: none;
    color: inherit;
    display: block;
}

@media (max-width: 600px) {
    .ia_ad {
        flex-direction: column;
        align-items: center;
    }

    .ia_lef {
        max-width: 100%;
    }

    .ia_lef a img {
        border-radius: 8px 8px 0 0;
    }


    .ia_rig {
        padding: 15px;
        width: 100%;
    }

    .ia_button {
        width: 100%;
	margin: 0px auto;
    }
}

    
        
            
    
    
        Red Report 2025: Analyzing the Top ATT&CK Techniques Used by 93% of Malware 
Malware targeting password stores surged 3X as attackers executed stealthy Perfect Heist scenarios, infiltrating and exploiting critical systems.
Discover the top 10 MITRE ATT&CK techniques behind 93% of attacks and how to defend against them.
        Read the Red Report 2025
    


           
          
            Related Articles:
	     BlackSuit ransomware extortion sites seized in Operation CheckmateAbacus dark web drug market goes offline in suspected exit scamPolice seizes Archetyp Market drug marketplace, arrests admin
	  
 
	  