
	   


As its revenues continue to decline, Netflix has announced that it is cracking down on password sharing. According to some estimates, about 222 million households pay for Netflix, while another 100 million households access Netflix by using someone else’s password.

An April 2022 study found that of 2209 American households surveyed, 17% admitted to sharing a Netflix password, and 11% of those respondents claimed to be sharing a password with people outside of their household.

Password sharing is commonplace

Even if you put aside the obvious problems that password sharing creates for Netflix, Netflix password sharing may only be a symptom of a more serious problem. The Netflix password sharing trend has conditioned people to accept the idea that it is OK to share passwords with one another if there is a good reason for doing so.

This idea isn’t just limited to content streaming services, but also manifests itself in the workplace. After all, we have probably all heard stories of users sharing their password with a supervisor or a coworker just prior to going on vacation or an extended medical leave. That way, someone will be able to access their data and monitor the employee’s email.

Carnegie Mellon found that as much as 28% of end-users willingly share passwords with others, and a Specops study found that of those who share passwords 21% of people don’t know who else their password has been shared with. That’s a lot of sharing going on.

Password sharing at work

The gradual transition to zero-trust security may have also had an impact on password sharing. One of the foundational concepts of any zero-trust model is that of Least User Access (LUA). LUA is the idea that users should only have access to the bare minimum resources that are required for the user to do their job.

Users are frustrated by lacking access to resources that might make it easier for them to do their jobs but have been deemed unnecessary by management.

As such, users might resort to password sharing to circumvent LUA related restrictions. In fact, 31% of end-users admit to circumventing IT restrictions at work, and password sharing is exactly that.

What’s the big deal?

There are numerous problems that can be caused by password sharing at work. One such problem is that when users share passwords, it makes security auditing far more difficult.

Suppose for a moment that a user does something illegal or commits a terminatable offence while logged in as another user. The user whose account was used will inevitably confess to sharing passwords with others. At that point, everyone who had access to the account will fall under suspicion.

Depending on the organization’s policies, all those employees could end up being terminated simply because it is impossible to definitively prove which employee committed the violation.

Another problem is that password sharing could lead to former employees continuing to have long term access to sensitive resources. Consider for a moment that NIST no longer advises organizations to force periodic password changes.

As such, an employee could conceivably continue to use the same password for many years. If the employee shares the password with a coworker, and that coworker eventually resigns, but the employee’s password never changes, then the former employee will continue to be able to access the organization’s network through the shared password.

Putting an end to password sharing in the workplace

Of course, this raises the question of what organizations can do to prevent password sharing. The first step should be to educate users on the dangers of password sharing. Beyond that however, there are several things that organizations can do to effectively put an end to password sharing.

Implementing MFA

First, organizations should require multifactor authentication. That way, even if an employee knows another employee’s password, it will be difficult for them to log in with that account due to the need for completing the MFA challenge.

Use a shared vault

A second thing that organizations can do is to use a password manager with a shared vault. Such a tool may automatically assign employee passwords to an individual vault with complex passwords, but also have a shared option for logins that could be securely shared—like a licensed tool, community email, etc.

Because password managers primarily work behind the scenes, an employee may not even know what their password is to write down or share. Plus, having a secure shared vault eliminates any peer pressure of sharing a password, because the sharing is all done “above board”.

Routine password audits

One more thing that an organization can do to prevent password sharing is to scan the organization’s Active Directory for identical passwords. Groups of employees may occasionally try to beat the system by coordinating password changes with one another so that everyone has the same password.

Specops offers a free, read-only tool called Specops Password Auditor that can generate password reports, letting you know if multiple employees are using the same password. In addition, Specops Password Auditor can help you to identify other potential threats such as unused accounts, accounts with blank passwords, and accounts with expired passwords.
Sponsored and written by Specops Software.

	   
            
	  