
	   


NordVPN's Black Friday deal is live with up to 68% off and 3 extra months for free on 1-year or 2-year subscriptions to the NordVPN VPN service.

If you wish to stay anonymous on the Internet while browsing the web, streaming movies, or listening to music, this NordVPN deal may interest you.

Until November 30th, NordVPN is currently running Cyber Week deals with different discounts depending on what products you bundle and for how many years.

For example, a NordVPN + NordLocker + NordPass 2-year license bundle is 68% off, and you get an additional 3 months for free. This bundle has the best discount, at 68% off, bringing the price down to $142.83 or $5.29/month.

If you don't want NordLocker or NordPass, and only want NordVPN, they also offer 63% off a 2-year license with 3 free extra months, bringing the price down to $80.73 or $2.99/month.

SERVICE DESCRIPTION:

For years, NordVPN offered additional protection with CyberSec. But now, with our advanced Threat Protection feature, it’s time for the next step in your digital security. It makes your browsing safer and smoother by blocking trackers and intrusive ads, identifying malware-ridden files, and stopping you from landing on malicious websites.


Screenshot of NordVPN running on Windows

NordVPN highlights the following features of their service:

Meshnet - Connect to any remote device directly over encrypted private tunnels and discover traffic routing.
	Threat Protection - Use Threat Protection to avoid online hazards like viruses, infected websites, and trackers.
	Dark Web Monitor - Dark Web Monitor will immediately notify you if someone leaks your credentials to the dark web.
	Dedicated IP - Get a Dedicated IP address that will be used by a single person – you.
	Secure internet - Biggest benefit of NordVPN? All your data stays safe behind a wall of next-generation encryption.
	Strict no-logs policy - We don’t track, collect, or share your private data. It’s none of our business.
	Privacy on the go - Protect your online life with one-click next-generation encryption for mobile.
	VPN servers everywhere - Choose from 5200+ servers in 59 countries. No limits, no borders, no internet censorship.
	Multiple devices - One account lets you connect up to 6 devices. Secure them all – in any combination.
	Obfuscated servers - Hide your internet traffic and VPN connection for maximum security.
	Multi-factor authentication - Use Multi-Factor authentication to secure your Nord Account.
	Protect your data non-stop - Kill Switch will make sure your data will not be exposed. Not even for a brief moment.
	Split tunneling support - Stream and share with VPN protection while still being able to surf local content.
	Mask your IP - Keep your browsing to yourself. Don’t let others track any online activity.
	Double protection - Change your IP twice and cover your web traffic with an extra layer of security.
	Use with ease - It’s just a click. Securing your internet connection is as simple as making your morning coffee.
	Onion Over VPN - Combine NordVPN encryption with the anonymity provided by The Onion Router.
	Uninterrupted streaming - Bye-bye buffering. Enjoy your TV time anywhere, anytime, uninterrupted.
	Browser extensions - Lightweight extensions for Chrome, Firefox, and Edge will secure your browsing instantly.
	Access your content - Enjoy the full range of streaming content to which you subscribe.
	Support 24/7 - Have questions or need help with the NordVPN service? Our team of experts is here to help you.
	Private DNS - Public DNS queries reveal a lot about your online life. Shield your activities with private DNS.
These deals are only available until the end of the month, so get the NordVPN Cyber Week deal while it is available!

	   
           
          
            Related Articles:
	     Get AdGuard’s VPN at a Black Friday price in July in this dealSave hundreds on a two-part digital AdGuard security suite for familiesGet a three-year subscription for SurfShark VPN for $67.19 in this dealThis lightweight refurbished Android  tablet is just $69.99 right nowLearn ChatGPT and automation skills with this 12 course deal
	  
 
	  