
	   


AI SPERA, a leader in Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI)-based solutions, today announced that Criminal IP ASM (Attack Surface Management) is now available on the Microsoft Azure Marketplace.

As an officially certified ISV partner of Microsoft, AI SPERA offers services and technology that bolster the robustness and functionality of the platform.

Through this partnership, AI SPERA showcases Criminal IP ASM on the Microsoft Azure Marketplace in the security service listings.


Criminal IP ASM on the Azure Marketplace

Criminal IP ASM is an Automated Attack Surface Management SaaS solution that monitors all internet-connected assets and vulnerabilities with just a single domain address of the assets in operation.

Criminal IP ASM utilizes IP-based security monitoring technology to quickly identify vulnerabilities, risks, and exposure information within a company's assets. It automatically updates and manages assets, encompassing both newly added and previously neglected ones.

By automating security and IT tasks, Criminal IP ASM eliminates false positives, reduces detection times, and automatically discovers neglected assets and vulnerabilities, proving to be an ideal solution for companies requiring continuous threat exposure management (CTEM).

In addition, Criminal IP ASM facilitates proactive and active responses tailored to specific sectors:

Manufacturing: Preventing data breaches and third-party risks through active scanning and monitoring of internet-connected devices/equipment.
	Government: Preventing security breaches, catching illegal crypto mining, supporting law enforcement with threat hunting and phishing prevention.
	Healthcare: Protecting patient privacy, guarding against ransomware attacks, and mitigating medical device vulnerabilities and legacy system risks by scanning and monitoring the entire attack surface.
You can explore detailed features and dashboard images of the newly listed Criminal IP ASM on the Azure Marketplace. Users who are interested in getting the platform can contact AI SPERA directly through the "Contact Me" button on the Azure Marketplace page.

About AI SPERA

AI SPERA launched its global cybersecurity service, Criminal IP, following a successful year-long beta phase. Since then, the company has forged technical and business collaborations with more than 40 renowned global security firms such as VirusTotal, Cisco, Tenable, Snowflake, and others.

Criminal IP presents a complete product line, including Criminal IP ASM (Enterprise Attack Surface Management Solution), Criminal IP FDS (Fraud Detection System), and Criminal IP SecOps (IP Address Threat Intelligence-Based Security Operations).

The search engine, catering to a diverse user base, is available in English, French, Arabic, Korean, and Japanese, and is utilized across 160 countries worldwide.
Sponsored and written by Criminal IP.

	   
            
	  