
	   


Emsisoft's Black Friday through Cyber Monday deal is now live with 50% off Emsisoft Anti-Malware Home 1-year licenses for 1, 3, or 5 devices.

If you have been in the market for Windows security software or know someone who needs protection, this is a great deal on an excellent antivirus product. 

Emsisoft is a powerful antivirus solution that uses a dual-scanning engine with definitions from both Emsisoft and Bitdefender. It also has advanced behavioral detections, allowing it to detect and stop ransomware when it tries to encrypt your computer.


Emsisoft Anti-Malware Home detecting malware on a test machineSource: BleepingComputer

Some of the features included in Emsisoft Anti-Malware are:

A cloud-based dashboard to manage all of your devices;
	Emsisoft (A) & Bitdefender (B) Fast Scanning dual-engine scanner scans faster than others that use only one. Combination of scan engines at most efficient level;
	Rootkit Detection Scans boot sectors and finds hidden rootkits in the operating system.
	PUP Detection Alerts users of potentially unwanted programs (PUPs) that overload the computer with resource-hogging applications.
	Advanced Infection Cleaning Smart operation processes ensure the safety and stability of the computer during system cleaning.
	Emergency Kit Maker creates a swiss army knife for scanning and cleaning infected third-party computers.
	A four-layered system including Web Protection, File Guard, Behavior Blocker, and Anti-Ransomware.
	Online Banking Protection Blocks banking-related trojans that try to wipe your bank account.
	Exploit- and System Manipulation-Prevention Ensures data integrity and validity of active programs.
Emsisoft Anti-Malware Home licenses usually cost $29.99 per device per year. However, with this holiday deal, that same license is only $14.99!

The 50% off Emsisoft Anti-Malware Home cyber week deal is available now through the end of Cyber Monday.

Disclosure: BleepingComputer has partnered with this vendor to promote special offers and discounts to our visitors. If a visitor purchases a product through a link in this article, BleepingComputer.com will earn a commission.

	   
           
          
            Related Articles:
	     Get protection suite for all your gear with Mcafee AV dealThis lightweight refurbished Android  tablet is just $69.99 right nowLearn ChatGPT and automation skills with this 12 course dealRetouch, enhance, erase — all in one with $20 Luminar app dealDon’t miss 15 multi-lesson coding courses for just $40 in this deal
	  
 
	  