
	   


The dust is far from settled following the disclosure of the 19 vulnerabilities in the TCP/IP stack from Treck, collectively referred to as Ripple20, which could help attackers take full control of vulnerable devices on the network.

Treck’s code is fundamental for the embedded devices it is implemented on because it bestows network communication to them and is present on gadgets used in a variety of sectors: technology, medical, construction, mining, printing, energy, software, industrial control systems (ICS), telecom, retail, commerce.

The company has notified its customers and issued patches but a week after the Ripple20 announcement from security research group JSOF, the full impact remains unclear.


1/1





Skip Ad
 
Continue watchingafter the adVisit Advertiser websiteGO TO PAGE.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot{position:absolute;top:0;left:0;grid-area:adslot;opacity:0;background:none;width:100%;height:100%}.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot.cnx-ad-bid-slot-selected{opacity:1;z-index:10}.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot{display:flex;position:absolute;top:0;left:0;justify-content:center;align-items:center;width:100%;height:100%;overflow:hidden}.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot video,.cnx-non-linear-ad-container video.cnx-ad-slot{background-color:unset}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot{position:absolute;top:0;left:0;grid-area:adslot;opacity:0;background:#f4f4f4;width:100%;height:100%}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot.cnx-ad-bid-slot-selected{opacity:1;z-index:10}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot{display:flex;position:absolute;top:0;left:0;justify-content:center;align-items:center;width:100%;height:100%;overflow:hidden}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot div{background-color:rgba(0,0,0,0) !important}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot iframe{box-sizing:border-box;border:3px solid #fff !important;color-scheme:none}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot iframe:not([id]){border:none !important}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot-video-type iframe{border:none !important}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot video,.cnx-ad-container video.cnx-ad-slot{background-color:#f4f4f4}This is because Treck’s code is licensed and distributed under different names or serves as a foundation for a new network stack.

Concerted efforts from national-level cybersecurity agencies and private companies in the field are ongoing to identify businesses with products vulnerable to issues in the Ripple20 vulnerability set.

Medical devices especially affected

What is clear at the moment, though, is that the healthcare industry is particularly affected and should be on high alert.

Elad Luz, head of research at CyberMDX, a company focused on security in medical devices and involved in identifying vulnerable products, told BleepingComputer that initial investigation placed healthcare industry’s exposure at more than seven times than that of manufacturing.

Forescout is also involved in the effort and published on the day of the disclosure that there were six times more vulnerable healthcare-related equipment than in the retail sector. The data represents devices in Forescout Device Cloud that matched Treck signatures.



The most common types of equipment identified by Forescout to run Treck code are infusion pumps, printers, UPS (uninterruptible power supply) systems, networking equipment, point-of-sale devices, IP cameras, video conferencing systems, building automation devices, and ICS devices.

CyberMDX’s investigation found that most radiology devices, glucometers, and lab devices were unaffected. Things are different with infusion pumps, though, which the company found to be "disproportionately affected."


“Together with our collaborators at JSOF and other organizations, we've been able to confirm, for example, that Baxter infusion pumps in the Sigma series are indeed vulnerable as well as some Braun infusion pumps” - CyberMDX


Below you will find a list with companies that have confirmed that their products are vulnerable to at least one vulnerability in the Ripple20 suite.

If you are a vendor with an advisory or notice, please contact us to have your information added.

Confirmed Ripple20 impact

Aruba Networks

A preliminary advisory based on an initial investigation is available from Aruba Networks (HPE subsidiary), listing L2/L3 switches produced under the Aruba or HP ProCurve brand names.


“These switches run the ArubaOS-Switch software or its previous name, HP ProVision Operating System. Any switches running ArubaOS-CX or Comware are not affected.”


The full advisory from Aruba Networks containing the switch series affected is available here.

Baxter US

Fortune 500 healthcare company Baxter announced that some of its Spectrum Infusion System’s Wireless Battery Modules are impacted by Ripple20 because they run Digi Net+OS with Treck’s TCP/IP stack:

35083 - b wireless battery module
	35162 - b/g wireless battery module
	35195 - a/b/g/n wireless battery module
	35223 - a/b/g/n wireless battery module
	36010 – a/b/g/n wireless battery module
The security bulletin from Baxter US can be found here.

B. Braun

The medical and pharmaceutical device company notified that vulnerable Treck code is present in its Outlook 400ES Safety Infusion Pump System and no other products are affected by the Ripple20 set of issues.


“To date, B. Braun has received 24 patches from Treck to resolve vulnerabilities in the software. We have analyzed the patches and determined that 20 of them are not applicable to the Outlook 400 ES platform (the product is not susceptible to these vulnerabilities). The four remaining patches continue to be analyzed to determine the scope, severity, and impact of each vulnerability” - B. Braun Ripple20 advisory


Beck/HMS Industrial Networks AB

Older products from the company run vulnerable components but most HMS products do not use Treck’s software library.

The company provides a list of products that are not vulnerable and will update it as more products are discovered to be safe from Ripple20. You can read the advisory here.

CareStream

CareStream announced that several of its products may be impacted by Ripple20, promising an updated list on June 26 as other their investigation continues.

CR975
	DIRECTVIEW Max CR System
	DIRECTVIEW Classic CR System
	DIRECTVIEW Elite CR System
	HPX Pro
	HPX-One
It’s worth noting that both the U.S. CERT Coordination Center at Carnegie Mellon on June 23 lists CareStream equipment as being vulnerable to all Ripple20 vulnerabilities.

You can download CareStream’s advisory from the company’s vulnerability assessment page.

Caterpillar

There is no statement from this company about which of its products are affected but an undisclosed number is vulnerable to Ripple20.



“If you are a customer and would like more information about available remediations, please contact your Cat dealer or global account manager” the company advises.



Cisco

The following routing and switching gear from Cisco is vulnerable to all security flaws disclosed in the Ripple20 advisory from JSOF.

Product
			Cisco Bug ID
			Fixed Release Availability
		Routing and Switching - Enterprise and Service Provider
		Cisco ASR 5000 Series Routers
			CSCvu68945
			 
		Cisco GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
			CSCvu68945
			 
		Cisco IP Services Gateway (IPSG)
			CSCvu68945
			 
		Cisco MME Mobility Management Entity
			CSCvu68945
			 
		Cisco PDSN/HA Packet Data Serving Node and Home Agent
			CSCvu68945
			 
		Cisco PGW Packet Data Network Gateway
			CSCvu68945
			 
		Cisco System Architecture Evolution Gateway (SAEGW)
			CSCvu68945
			 
		The company is currently investigating its product line to determine if other products are affected by the flaws and will update the advisory with new information.

Digi International

The company found that any embedded device using the NET+OS 7.X software development platform along with the products below are affected by Ripple20:

Connect SP
	Connect ME
	Connect ES
	Connect EM
	Connect WME
	Connect 9C
	Connect 9P
	ConnectPort X4 (all variants)
	ConnectPort X2 (NOT X2e)
	ConnectPort TS (Not LTS)
	AnywhereUSB (excluding Plus)
	NetSilicon 7520, 9210, 9215,9360, 9750
New firmware versions are available for the products since late April and customers are strongly recommended to install them, the company advises in its security notice.

Green Hills Software

This developer of real-time operating systems (RTOS) and programming tools for embedded devices provides the GHnet v2 network stack, which is based on Treck’s TCP/IP stack.

The code is present in the INTEGRITY RTOS but because it enforces isolation between the kernel and the applications, the impact of Ripple20 is not severe.

The notification from Green Hills Software is posted here: https://support.ghs.com/psirt/PSA-2020-05/

HCL Technologies

An undisclosed number of products from this vendor are vulnerable to Ripple20 but no official statement is currently available on the company’s page for security bulletins.

Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE)

No advisory is available at the moment but information is expected to be released in the near future in a security bulletin from the company.

HP Inc. and Samsung

An advisory from the vendor refers to HP and Samsung printer vulnerable to Ripple20. Dozens of then are affected:

HP Laser
	HP LaserJet Pro
	HP Neverstop Laser
	Samsung proXpress
	Samsung MultiXpress
	HP DeskJet
	HP OfficeJet
	HP OfficeJet Pro
	HP Ink Tank
	HP Smart Tank
All printers have received new firmware that correct the issues; customers are strongly advised to install the updates, the security bulletin Urges.

Other issues related to the Treck TCP/IP stack in HP products have been inherited from Intel components, reads another advisory from the company.

Intel

Some versions of Intel Active Management Technology (AMT) and Intel Standard Manageability (ISM) are vulnerable to three issues in the Ripple20 set.

An advisory from the company notes that the vulnerabilities had been assigned different tracking numbers before JSOF disclosed their findings but correspond to CVE-2020-11899, CVE-2020-11900, and CVE-2020-11905.

MaxLinear

CyberMDX lists MaxLinear chip maker among the vendors with products affected by Ripple20. The company has not published any statement or advisory naming the impacted devices.

Rockwell Automation

An advisory from Rockwell Automation is available for customers only. An undisclosed number of products from this company is affected by the entire Ripple20 vulnerability set.

Schneider Electric

Dozens of products from Schneider Electric are impacted by all 19 Ripple20 vulnerabilities. The vendor published a list, updated on June 24, with dozens of devices that are vulnerable.

The advisory from Schneider Electric also recommends mitigations to limit the risk of exploitation. An up-to-date version of the document can be downloaded from the company’s security notification for Ripple20.

Dozens of products from Schneider Electric are impacted by all 19 Ripple20 vulnerabilities. The vendor published a list, updated on June 24, with dozens of devices that are vulnerable.

The advisory from Schneider Electric also recommends mitigations to limit the risk of exploitation. An up-to-date version of the document can be downloaded from the company’s security notification for Ripple20.

Teradici

Teradici software firm acknowledged that Ripple20 issues exist in versions of Tera2 Zero Client firmware 20.01.1 and prior as well as Tera2 Remote Workstation Card 20.01.1 and prior.

The developer has released new firmware versions to fix the bugs, the company announced in an advisory from June 17.

Treck

Treck is at the center of the ripple. The company has updated its library to include the necessary fixes and if Treck library was not licensed directly from the company the suggestion for owners of vulnerable products is to contact the manufacturer or seller to receive the patches.

Treck has notified its customers and provided this vulnerability response statement. Inquiries on Treck releases containing fixes or patches for all the reported issues should be addressed at this email contact.

Xerox

In a short security bulletin on June 16, Xerox confirmed that some of its devices are impacted by Ripple20 and provided new firmware versions for three of its printers:

Xerox B205
	Xerox B210
	Xerox B215
Zuken Elmic

The company distributes Treck’s TCP/IP stack under the name KASAGO. This means that any product running this library is vulnerable to Ripple20.

A workaround has been provided in the advisory to keep affected products safe until a patch can be applied.

Dell

Ripple20 vulnerabilities in Dell products are inherited from an Intel component that is present in Dell Client Platforms (advisory) and from Teradici firmware and remote workstation cards in Dell Precision and Dell Wyse Zero Client products (advisory).

Dell has released fixes and encourages customers to prioritize updating their systems to the latest firmware version.

Eaton

The multinational power management company announced in a security bulletin that some of its products rely on Treck's library to implement  IPv4, IPv6, UDP, DNS, DHCP, TCP, ICMPv4, and ARP and are vulnerable to multiple Ripple20 issues.

The company's efforts to identify all affected products are ongoing. Below is a provisional list:

CL-7 voltage regulator control
	Form 4D recloser control
	Form 6 recloser control
	Edison Idea and IdeaPLUS relays (all variants)
	Metered Input Power Distribution Units
	Metered Outlet Power Distribution Units
	Managed Power Distribution Units
	High Density Power Distribution Units
Opto22

CyberMDX and JSOF have added Opto22 (1, 2) to their list of vendors with products affected by the Ripple20 vulnerabilities. The company makes hardware and software for industrial automation, remote monitoring, and data acquisition.

The company has released an advisory with products exposed to the security flaws generated by Treck's TCP/IP stack. Over a dozen product running firmware versions R9.1a or later and R1.0a or later are impacted. Opto22 is in the process of testing firmware that fixes the flaws in the listed products and offers a set of mitigations until patches are available:

minimize exposure on the local network and make sure they are not reachable over the public internet
	isolate control system networks from the business network
	for remote access, use secure methods like a VPN connection
	set up an internal DNS server for DNS-over-HTTPS lookups
Ricoh

CyberMDX has added Ricoh to their list of vendors with products affected by the Ripple20 vulnerabilities. Some printers from this company are allegedly impacted by the Ripple20 set of vulnerabilities.

Update [June 25, 13:00 EDT]: Rephrased small parts of the text for clarity. Removed Sandia National Laboratories, which was incorrectly referenced in a list of vendors with products affected by Ripple20.

The article will receive updates as new companies are identified with products affected by Ripple20. New entries will be added at the bottom of the article.

	   

.ia_ad {
    background-color: #f0f6ff;
    width: 95%;
    max-width: 800px;
    margin: 15px auto;
    border-radius: 8px;
    border: 1px solid #d6ddee;
    display: flex;
    align-items: stretch;
    padding: 0;
    overflow: hidden;
}

.ia_lef {
    flex: 1;
    max-width: 200px;
    height: auto;
    display: flex;
    align-items: stretch;
}

.ia_lef a {
    display: flex;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
}


.ia_lef a img {
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
    object-fit: cover;
    border-radius: 8px 0 0 8px;
    margin: 0;
    display: block;
}

.ia_rig {
    flex: 2;
    padding: 10px;
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: column;
    justify-content: center;
}

.ia_rig h2 {
    font-size: 17px !important;
    font-weight: 700;
    color: #333;
    line-height: 1.4;
    font-family: Georgia, "Times New Roman", Times, serif;
    margin: 0 0 14px 0;
}

.ia_rig p {
    font-weight: bold;
    font-size: 14px;
    margin: 0 0 clamp(6px, 2vw, 14px) 0;
}

.ia_button {
    background-color: #FFF;
    border: 1px solid #3b59aa;
    color: black;
    text-align: center;
    text-decoration: none;
    border-radius: 8px;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 16px;
    font-weight: bold;
    cursor: pointer;
    padding: 10px 20px;
    width: fit-content;
}

.ia_button a {
    text-decoration: none;
    color: inherit;
    display: block;
}

@media (max-width: 600px) {
    .ia_ad {
        flex-direction: column;
        align-items: center;
    }

    .ia_lef {
        max-width: 100%;
    }

    .ia_lef a img {
        border-radius: 8px 8px 0 0;
    }


    .ia_rig {
        padding: 15px;
        width: 100%;
    }

    .ia_button {
        width: 100%;
	margin: 0px auto;
    }
}



    
        
            
        
    
    
        Red Report 2025: Analyzing the Top ATT&CK Techniques Used by 93% of Malware 
Malware targeting password stores surged 3X as attackers executed stealthy Perfect Heist scenarios, infiltrating and exploiting critical systems.
Discover the top 10 MITRE ATT&CK techniques behind 93% of attacks and how to defend against them.
        Read the Red Report 2025
    


           
          
            Related Articles:
	     Trend Micro warns of Apex One zero-day exploited in attacksSonicWall urges admins to patch critical RCE flaw in SMA 100 devicesHackers actively exploit critical RCE in WordPress Alone themeCISA flags PaperCut RCE bug as exploited in attacks, patch nowCisco: Maximum-severity ISE RCE flaws now exploited in attacks
	  
 
	  