
	   


With payment card information being an enticing target for cyber attackers, the safeguarding of payment card transactions is of utmost importance. AI Spera is pleased to announce its attainment of the highest global compliance certification level, PCI DSS Level 1 for Criminal IP, its in-house developed and serviced Cyber Threat Intelligence search engine.

The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a global information security standard designed to safeguard card payment information and transactions.

It encompasses a comprehensive set of requirements covering network protection, data encryption, system security, access control, and more, to safeguard sensitive financial data and maintain the integrity of payment systems.

Criminal IP has achieved the highest level of compliance, PCI DSS Level 1 certification. With this accomplishment, Criminal IP can minimize the risk of data breaches, protect customer information, and maintain the trust of its service users and partners.


Criminal IP, a Cyber Threat Intelligence search engine, provides a secure online subscription service

Criminal IP is not only committed to maintaining a secure payment system by achieving a PCI DSS Level 1 but has also launched a Bug Bounty program in June. This initiative underscores its commitment to safeguarding user data and ensuring online service safety.

With these enhancements, Criminal IP reflects its dedication to delivering the best possible service to users worldwide.

With a user-friendly interface, the comprehensive search engine provides tailored plans designed to meet various user needs, offering flexibility and convenience.

Users can choose an ideal plan according to their needs and check their credit usage on the dashboard. A Free membership plan is sufficient to benefit from the basic features.

Additionally, CISOs across various sectors can inquire about personalized cybersecurity solutions, all powered by Criminal IP, including Criminal IP ASM (Attack Surface Management Solution), Criminal IP SecOps (IP Address Threat Intelligence-Based Security Operations), and Criminal IP FDS (Fraud Detection System).

About AI Spera

AI Spera launched Criminal IP, a global cybersecurity service, in April 2023, after a successful year-long beta testing phase. Since that release, the company has formed strategic partnerships with industry leaders and offers advanced threat intelligence services to government agencies, investigation and education institutions, and research labs.

Its OSINT-based Cyber Threat Intelligence search engine is currently available in five languages catering to a diverse user base.
Sponsored and written by Criminal IP.

	   
            
	  