
	   


Malwarebytes' is continuing their holiday deal through Cyber Monday, with 50% off consumer products and 25% off their business antivirus solution until November 28th.

The current deals available from Malwarebytes are listed below:

50% off Malwarebytes' Premium (1 Year Subscription, 5 Devices), discounted from $79.99 to $39.99.
	50% off the Malwarebytes Premium + Malwarebytes Privacy VPN bundle (1 Year Subscription, 3 Devices), discounted from $79.99 to $39.99.
	25% off Malwarebytes for Teams (1 Device, 1 Year subscription), discounted from $49.99 to $37.49.
All of these deals can be adjusted for additional years and devices for increased savings.

Malwarebytes Premium version 4.5 includes numerous features to help you stay protected, including real-time malware protection, exploit protection, and behavior detections for ransomware attacks.



The features of Malwarebytes Premium include the following:

Advanced antivirus, anti-malware, anti-spyware, and more
	Phishing and malicious link protection
	Ransomware and zero-day exploit protection
	Brute Force Protection
	Uninstall Protection
	Remove not only malware but adware and potentially unwanted programs as well.
	Malwarebytes' real-time protection module protects you from online threats and malware attempting to launch on your computer.
	Web protection module protects you from online scams, exploit kits, and malicious web sites.
While running, Malwarebytes will also monitor network connections, preventing communication with malicious sites and command and control servers.


Malwarebytes blocking a malicious connection​​

Malwarebytes Privacy VPN is the company's newest offering, providing increased privacy by allowing you to browse the web and download files anonymously.

The software a no-log VPN service that allows you to connect to 500 servers in 30+ countries, letting you pick the geographic region your connections will appear from.


Malwarebytes Privacy VPN

Malwarebytes' VPN product uses the modern WireGuard VPN implementation integrated into the Linux kernel.

The 50% off Malwarebytes' Premium, 50% off the Malwarebytes Premium + Malwarebytes Privacy VPN bundle, and 25% off Malwarebytes for Teams deals are only available through November 28th, so if you want to take advantage of them, you only have today left.

Disclosure: BleepingComputer has partnered with this vendor to promote special offers and discounts to our visitors. If a visitor purchases a product through a link in this article, BleepingComputer.com will earn a commission.

	   
           
          
            Related Articles:
	     This lightweight refurbished Android  tablet is just $69.99 right nowLearn ChatGPT and automation skills with this 12 course dealRetouch, enhance, erase — all in one with $20 Luminar app dealDon’t miss 15 multi-lesson coding courses for just $40 in this dealBreak into cybersecurity with hands-on practice in this $40 course deal
	  
 
	  