
	   


It’s definitely no secret that antivirus software is an essential part of your computer.

However, these threats don’t stop at your devices. For example, criminals that try to steal your data can attack your Wi-Fi router, and phishing attempts can target your email.

ESET’s newest consumer product release has taken a comprehensive approach to security to guard against a full range of threats. Every solution comes with ESET’s signature light footprint for gaming, browsing, shopping and socializing without slowdowns or interruptions.

Introducing enhanced security for Windows, Mac and Android

For over 30 years, ESET® has created industry-leading IT security software and services, protecting businesses worldwide from ever-evolving digital threats.



ESET’s solutions for consumers use the same advanced technologies. By protecting your digital life, ESET delivers real-world protection against criminals that try to hack your bank account, lock down your computer, or steal your identity.

While cyberthreats and hackers continue to evolve, ESET is always a step ahead.

Here is a look at the new product updates:

ESET Essential Security

ESET NOD32 Antivirus for Windows & macOS



As ESET’s entry-level product, ESET NOD32 Antivirus is anything but basic. In addition to defending against malware and phishing attempts, this new version includes:

Advanced machine learning: Proactive technology designed to detect never-before-seen malware.
	DNA detection: Uses code analysis to extract the “genes” responsible for a specific virus behavior to detect others like it.
	Exploit blocker: Helps block zero-day exploits by monitoring for suspicious activity.
	Intel Threat Detection Technology: Boosts ransomware protection by integrating Intel’s hardware-based ransomware detection technology.
ESET Advanced Security

ESET Internet Security for Windows, macOS & Android



ESET Internet Security now offers additional layers of defense for your home network and smart devices and an updated secure browser feature. Highlights include:

Multi-platform coverage: Secures all your devices (smartphone, laptop, smart TV, tablet, etc.) and the network they’re connected to.
	Secure browser mode: Encrypts all communication between the keyboard and browser for safer gaming, socializing and browsing.
	Brute Force Attack Protection: Blocks attacks that attempt to guess your password and access your by feeding large volumes of previously breached passwords
	Banking and payment protection: Includes a new and improved plugin that keeps personal information from being stolen while shopping, banking and paying online.
	Intel Threat Detection Technology: Boosts ransomware protection by integrating Intel’s hardware-based ransomware detection technology.
ESET Premium Security

ESET Smart Security Premium for Windows, macOS & Android



ESET’s flagship product adds cloud sandbox analysis, a password manager and encryption for ultimate security. New features include:

ESET LiveGuard: Personalized virus detection system that works with documents, scripts, installers, and executable files. Suspicious files are run in a safe, sandboxed environment before being cleared for release or deleted.
	Military-grade encryption software: Designed to keep the files on your computer safe and those on any external drivers.
	Password management: Generates strong encrypted passwords and stores them securely.
	iOS face detection: For macOS users, integrates into the password management feature along with Google Authenticator’s two-factor authentication.
NOTE: All of ESET’s consumer products include a simplified security management system via the ESET HOME user hub.

When technology enables progress, ESET is here to protect it.

You can also get 20% off your ESET subscription with code: ESETAFF20 when you checkout.

Learn more here.
Sponsored and written by ESET.

	   
            
	  