
	   


What’s in store for mWISE 2023? 80+ curated sessions. 90+ hand-picked speakers. 7 session tracks. All the hottest topics in security. It’s taking place September 18–20, 2023 in Washington, DC. 

Register now and get $300 off a full conference pass, which includes access to all the sessions, evening receptions, and events. Hurry, discount registration ends August 13.

Register now >

Just Announced: Cyber Intelligence Panel at mWISE 

How is cyber intelligence being transformed by major geopolitical events and new technical demands? What does the increasing intensity of both of these factors mean for practitioners?

Organizers of the mWISE conference from Mandiant have announced a keynote panel addressing these questions, with a focus on both the challenges and the opportunities of the current times. 

Moderated by Sean Lyngaas of CNN.com, the Cyber Intelligence in a Rapidly Changing World panel includes: 


	Jackie Burns Koven of Chainalysis
	
	
	John Hultquist of Mandiant, now part of Google Cloud
	
	
	Selena Larson of Proofpoint
	
	
	Maddie Stone of the Google Threat Analysis Group
	
Learn more about this keynote >

A Different Kind of Conference

mWISE is unique among security conferences in its community-focused, highly collaborative agenda. An open call for speakers resulted in hundreds of submissions. From there, an independent panel of frontline practitioners selected only the most relevant, compelling, and solutions-focused topics.

The idea is to bring the industry’s best minds together in a single gathering, using the power of collective intelligence to unlock new solutions. 

Torsten George is a Cybersecurity Evangelist at Absolute Software and member of the 2023 mWISE Independent Program Committee.

“I’m a big believer that there’s no single tool or security concept that will have a greater impact on the overall cyber landscape than that of collaboration,” he says. “And that’s exactly what the mWISE conference is all about.”

What does he think of the 2023 lineup? “This year’s session catalog is even more appealing than last year,” he says. “It delivers thought-provoking discussions and content from the best minds in the security industry.”

Learn more about mWISE >



Session Track Spotlight: Security Threats and Exploits

One of mWISE’s most popular tracks, Security Threats and Exploits, looks at attacks aimed at disrupting computer networks or systems through unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service.

2023 sessions in the track include:


	You’ve Leaked Hashes: The Inside Story of CVE-2023-23397
	What started as investigating suspicious activity on Exchange Servers turned into discovering a zero-day vulnerability that people didn’t know existed. Get the inside story.Speaker: Roberto Bamberger, Senior Principal Consultant at Microsoft Corporation
	
	
	Can Your Gym Equipment Be Attracting Security Threats?
	As more devices become connected to the internet, it’s important to understand the potential risks and take steps to mitigate them. Find out how gym equipment like treadmills are targeted by malicious hackers to gain sensitive information. Speaker: Augusto Morales, Technology Lead, Threat Solutions at Check Point Software Technologies
	
	
	REvil: Riches to Rags — The Rise and Takedown of a Cybercrime Empire
	After years of research into this cybercriminal empire, what did we learn about their dominance, and what mistakes led to their demise?Speaker: John Fokker, Head of Threat Intelligence at Trellix
	
	
	Mapping the Ransomware Payment Ecosystem and Threat Actor Behavior
	This session unveils a map of the ransomware process and paints a clear picture of the people, processes, and information involved in ransomware payments. Uncover the key barriers to and enablers of ransomware attacks. Speaker: Zoë Brammer, Cyber and Information Operations Associate at Institute for Security and Technology
	
	
	Malware Attack Victim: The Evolution of a Cybersecurity Posture
	Take a journey through the Rockingham County School District’s 42-day attack mitigation during the Christmas holiday of 2017. Learn what they did right and what they did wrong, and how their security efforts are stronger than ever before. Speaker: Kacey Sensenich, Chief Technology Officer at Rockingham County Schools
	
See all the sessions >

Discount Registration Ends August 13

There are just a few days left to get $300 off a full conference pass. This is a conference you don’t want to miss.

Register now >
Sponsored and written by Mandiant.

	   
            
	  