
	   


Mark your calendar for mWISE™, the uniquely targeted, community-focused cybersecurity conference from Mandiant. It runs from September 18 – 20, 2023 in Washington, DC.

Organizers at mWISE, the highly anticipated cybersecurity conference from Mandiant, have released this year’s session tracks.

mWISE is unique in its community orientation. Not only is the conference vendor-neutral—intensely focused on exploring solutions instead of promoting products—but the agenda, speakers, and topics emerge from the community at large.

After an initial Call for Speakers, an independent committee reviews submissions, selecting the most innovative, incisive, and relevant. From there, the committee builds and curates six topic tracks.



The tracks for mWISE 2023 have shaped up as follows: 
ol#mwise-list > li::marker {
  font-weight: bold;
}

	Cloud security
	Given the accelerating (and ever-increasing) importance of the cloud, cloud security is top-of-mind in cyber. Topics in this track include understanding common risks in cloud infrastructure, assessing your cloud security posture, investigating cloud-centric threat models, and managing/mitigating potential vulnerabilities. 
	
	
	Intelligence
	What’s the current state of play in cyber-threat intelligence? Which recent advancements in the tools, tech, and methodologies for tracking cyber adversary groups should you be aware of? And how can you effectively communicate analytic findings to minimize your cyber risk exposure?
	
	
	Security engineering
	This track focuses on building/maintaining security posture by incorporating security controls into systems to prevent misuse and malicious behavior and maintain policies. Sessions will cover things like DevOps, DevSecOps, API security, network design, SASE, zero trust networks, and much more.
	
	
	Security operations
	Here the focus is on the critical security areas at an organizational and technical level. In other words, which people do you need, and what processes and technology are necessary for preventing, detecting, analyzing, and responding to cybersecurity incidents? 
	
	
	Security threats and exploits
	Talks in these sessions look at attacks aimed at disrupting computer networks or systems through unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service. Think intrusion detection/prevention, vulnerability management, ransomware, dark web, and incident response (among other topics).
	
	
	Third-party and cyber risk management
	Sessions in this track are focused on the ongoing process of discovering, correcting, and preventing security problems and implanting plans to address future risks. Topics include business impact analysis, third-party supply chain, penetration testing, data control, and beyond.
	
A seventh track will feature sponsor case studies and actionable examples in a new Expo Breakout on the Expo floor.

See the session catalog.

How is mWISE different?

mWISE was established as a welcoming, diverse, vendor-neutral space where security’s best meet face-to-face (and online) to push through to new insights. Featuring first-hand experiences and battle-tested solutions for the latest threats, mWISE gives security practitioners a place where they can lean into learning and reach new levels of mastery. 

At mWISE, experts from both the public and private sectors experience a level of connection and collaboration that doesn’t happen elsewhere. 

The conference runs from September 18 – 20, 2023, in Washington, DC.

Early bird registration ends July 4. 

There are just a few days left to get the lowest price available for the conference. If you register now, you’ll get 45% off the standard conference rate. 

Register Now.
Sponsored and written by Mandiant.

	   
            
	  