
	   


Are you concerned about the security of your external web applications? Rightly so, as cyber-attacks on web applications are on the rise and can do some serious damage to your business.

According to the 2022 Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report, web application attacks accounted for roughly 70% of security incidents in 2021. At the same time, the cost of data breaches is also increasing, with the average cost of a data breach now totaling $4.24 million. These trends are only likely to continue, making web application security a top priority for businesses of all sizes.

There are several reasons why web application attacks are on the rise this year:

Organizations are increasingly relying on web-based applications for business-critical workloads.
More sensitive data is being stored and transmitted via web applications, including customer data, financial data, and trade secrets. As a result, the average cost of a data breach in 2021 continues to rise.

Web applications are often the weakest link in an organization's security posture.
 Web applications are the assets that are most likely to be internet-facing and therefore are especially susceptible to hacking. Input fields can be easily exploited and used to inject malicious code; threat actors are increasingly attacking web application servers to gain access and escalate privileges to steal data or install malware.

Web applications are becoming increasingly complex.
Apps increasingly incorporate third-party components and integrations, introducing vulnerabilities outside the organization's control. The rise of cloud computing, the growth of microservices, and the increasing use of open-source components have created additional attack points.

Web apps are easy to develop and deploy.
As release cycles accelerate, it becomes more difficult to properly test and secure web applications before they are deployed. Moreover, apps are updated frequently with new features and functionality, often resulting in new vulnerabilities.

How Pentesting-as-a-Service Can Help

While web application attacks are increasing in popularity, organizations are struggling to keep up with the pace of change. New web applications are constantly deployed, and existing web applications are frequently updated. Agile development makes it increasingly difficult to continuously monitor the entire surface infrastructure for vulnerabilities.

Additionally, traditional security operations teams are not equipped to proactively monitor web applications for vulnerabilities and ensure that standardized web application security practices are consistently followed.

Organizations need to continuously monitor their entire surface infrastructure to adequately reduce application risk. This can be a daunting task, especially for large organizations with hundreds or even thousands of web-based applications that are constantly changing.

This is where Outpost24's PTaaS software comes in.

Introducing Outpost24's Pentesting-as-a-Service

Web application testing is critical to your organization's security posture, but the traditional pen testing process can't keep up with the pace of agile development. Manual pen testing is resource-intensive, slow, and expensive, and automated scanners are riddled with false positives that waste valuable time and resources.

Outpost24's Pentesting-as-a-Service (PTaaS) is a hybrid service that helps organizations continuously monitor their web applications for vulnerabilities. Unlike traditional pen testing, Outpost24's PTaaS solution combines automated vulnerability scanning with manual penetration testing. This holistic approach ensures comprehensive coverage of web application vulnerabilities by combining the speed and efficiency of automation and the accuracy of manual testing.

Automated Scanning: Outpost24 offers continuous monitoring of web applications. Organizations can leverage powerful automation to stay ahead of emerging threats and mitigate the risk of web application exploit.
	Manual Testing: All our pen testing reports are peer-reviewed by our security experts, giving you the most accurate view of the vulnerability findings, including business logic errors and backdoors that automated scanners missed
	Zero false positives: All vulnerabilities are peer-reviewed to ensure zero false positives in the vulnerability reports.
	Continuous Monitoring: When we detect a change, our security experts review that change and, where needed, will conduct a detailed and thorough penetration test to re-assess the security posture to ensure your risk levels are in check.
	Actionable Reporting: Outpost24 provides comprehensive reports that detail the findings of web application security testing in real-time via a portal that displays all relevant data for parsing vulnerabilities and verifying the effectiveness of remediation as soon as vulnerabilities are discovered.
	Remediation: We provide real-time insights into your vulnerabilities to expedite your remediation as the test is happening and help verify your remediation effort beyond the test length for the best results
	Real-time collaboration: Outpost24's PTaaS is backed by a team of expert web application security consultants. Organizations can collaborate with our security experts for vulnerability clarification and recommended fixes.
	Cost-effective: PTaaS is a cost-effective solution for web application security. PTaaS is priced per application, so organizations only pay for what they need.
	Flexible: Outpost24's PTaaS is a flexible, scalable solution that can be customized to fit the needs of any organization. The service can be deployed quickly and easily and scaled as needed.
Outpost24's PTaaS software offers a holistic, continuous, on-demand approach to application security testing that combines automated scanning with a cycle of high-quality manual testing conducted by highly experienced pen testers. With Outpost24's PTaaS, you can enable robust application security for your organization in order to:

Eliminate web application vulnerabilities: PTaaS helps organizations continuously find and fix web application vulnerabilities, including runtime vulnerabilities and logical errors before they can be exploited.
	Ensure standardized security practices: PTaaS ensures that web applications are tested and secured in accordance with the industry best practices to mitigate risks quickly and efficiently.
	Improve the organization's security posture and support compliance for OWASP Top 10, NIST, HIPAA, and ISO security standards.
	Save time and resources: PTaaS is a managed service that takes care of all the tools and services needed to perform web application security testing.
Outpost24's PTaaS solution offers a turnkey approach to web application security, making it easy to test and remediate vulnerabilities. Contact Outpost24 today to learn more about PTaaS and how it can help your organization.
Sponsored and written by Outpost24.

	   
            
	  