
	   


Mark your calendar for mWISE™, the uniquely targeted, community-focused cybersecurity conference from Mandiant. It runs from September 18–20, 2023 in Washington, DC.

Organizers at mWISE, the highly anticipated cybersecurity conference from Mandiant, now part of Google Cloud, have released this year’s session catalog.

The seven topic tracks cover everything from cloud security and engineering to third-party and cyber risk management.

A trending topic area throughout is, of course, Artificial Intelligence. Frontline, in-the-trenches practitioners will look at AI from a variety of important angles, including:


	AI and the Security Practitioner
	AI is finally delivering on the promise of benefiting security. Are you ready to embrace it — and what should you know before you do?
	
	
	How AI Is Changing the Malware Landscape
	What happens when you use an LLM to analyze malware scripts? See lessons learned from AI-generated malware and evasion techniques.
	
	
	The Implications of Generative AI for Cyber-Enabled Influence Operations
	What level of threat does generative AI present in the cyber-enabled IO domain? Get a balanced, nuanced picture.
	
	
	China and Russia’s Use of AI: Impacts on Cybersecurity
	A look at the growing use of AI with China and Russia’s cyber elite, including methods, motivations, and relationships.
	
	
	Addressing Cognitive Bias in AI Systems for Enhanced Cyber Threat Analysis
	What are the cognitive biases in AI cyber threat analysis? Where do they come from, and how do they affect threat detection?
	
What else is offered at mWISE? With more than 80 sessions to choose from, you’ll have ample opportunity to gain relevant knowledge in the areas you care about most.

Learn about methodologies, tactics, and solutions you can put to use immediately. Other hot-topic sessions include:


	Pairing SOCs with Automation: You Won’t Be Replaced by a Robot YetChristina Parry, Huntress Labs
	Which simple but effective automations can any SOC build with open-source libraries?
	
	
	Behind the Curtains of a Large Supply Chain Security ProgramCassie Crossley, Schneider Electric
	Practical approaches for over 12 SCRM initiatives, including R&D security, secure development, SBOMs, vulnerability management, and third-party risk management.
	
	
	You’ve Leaked Hashes: The Inside Story of CVE-2023-23397Roberto Bamberger, Microsoft Corporation
	Strange activity on an Exchange Server revealed a zero-day vulnerability in Outlook exploited by the nation-state actor Strontium. Get the inside story.
	
	
	Why You Need More Than the SOC TriadJean Schaffer, formerly of DIA and NSA
	Why the SOC Visibility Triad should be expanded to include cloud data, with identity underpinning all of it.
	
	
	Securing the Unseen: Navigating the Challenges of Security in ServerlessDesmond Lamptey, Capital One
	Get a walkthrough of hacking an insecure AWS Lambda app from your mobile device.
	
	
	Bank Heist: UNC2891 Case StudyTakahiro Sugiyama, Mandiant
	Criminals kept withdrawing cash from ATMs using fake bank cards. How did they do it, and how did Mandiant investigate?
	
In the complete session catalog you can sort by track, technical level, and session type. Or go right to the speakers to see the depth and breadth of their expertise.



A new kind of security conference.

mWISE was established as an intimate, vendor-neutral gathering with a focus on hard-hitting solutions for practitioners on the front lines. It’s not a megaconference; it’s a targeted space where people who are serious about security find each other, make connections, and solve problems. You can expect to have important, fruitful personal interactions not only with other attendees but with speakers and session leaders.

The conference runs from September 18–20, 2023, in Washington, DC.

Just a few weeks left for discount registration.
Register by August 13th to get $300 off the standard price for the Full Conference pass.REGISTER NOW
Sponsored and written by Mandiant.

	   
            
	  