
	   


Imagine if all you needed to do to turn a security policy into an enforced workflow was type it out as a prompt...

Modern security teams have witnessed many generations of solutions that make it easier to automate security workflows across tools, from manual scripting, to Security, Automation, Orchestration, and Response (SOAR) tools, to low-code/no-code platforms.

With each generation, new tools debut and empower practitioners with new capabilities, lowering the barrier to entry for building automations.

Now, the next generation of security automation tooling is here and it’s powered by generative AI. 

How Generative AI Unlocks No-Code Automation for Security

When Blink was founded in 2021, we knew how difficult it was for security teams to automate internal workflows, so we began building a cloud-native platform to make it easier than ever.

We built the Blink platform as a best-of-breed low-code platform. Low-code platforms had already transformed business operations for CRM and marketing, and it was only a matter of time before low-code solutions enabled security teams to automate their own workflows across their stacks.

Now, with the recent advancements in large language models (LLM) and generative AI, we have been able to go beyond low-code.

We are excited to share with you Blink Copilot, the first ever vendor-agnostic no-code platform for automating security and IT operations workflows. 

For the first time, it is now possible for any security professional to instantly generate automated workflows by just typing a prompt.



You no longer need to write code or be an expert in your target application’s APIs to build a useful automation.

Enter a prompt for what you want to do and seconds later a no-code workflow will be generated. You can then test and customize it using all the best parts of low-code platforms like drag-and-drop actions, variables, and the ability to expose automations as self-service apps.

Why Scalable Security Automation is Critical Now

The gap between demand and supply for security expertise is an existential challenge for organizations across industries. According to the 2022 (ISC)² Cybersecurity Workforce Study, there are over 3.4 million open security jobs and too few skilled security operators to fill them. Meanwhile, cybersecurity breaches in 2022 were more costly than ever before.

How do you grow well-staffed security teams without suffering from frequent burn-out and high staff turnover?

Automating security workflows is critical to ensure that small teams can have an outsized impact as they defend against the daily threats and put systems into place to enforce security policies. Having the right tools make a major difference.

With Blink Copilot, security and IT operators of all skill levels can now leverage AI to increase productivity and deliver workflows to help protect their organizations. Projects that once took months are now built in seconds.

If you can think of a best practice or security policy, you can now enforce it and also educate your team by building in email or Slack notifications to your workflows.

Automating Security Workflows Beyond the SOC

Previous generations of security automation tooling were designed with the Security Operations Center (SOC) in mind. With so many alerts, the need for automation was urgent and obvious to prevent fatigue and ensure that SecOps professionals could spend their time on the things that matter.

While the SOC is still the security hub of most organizations, maintaining a strong security posture requires collaboration across departments, including:


	SOC & Incident Response
	
	
	Cloud Security
	
	
	IT & SaaS Security
	
	
	Identity & Access Management
	
	
	Governance, Risk & Compliance
	
Achieving security excellence requires expertise on best practices, automation to make those best practices easy to follow, and streamlined communication between teams and stakeholders.



After talking with hundreds of IT managers, IAM professionals, DevOps leads, SOC analysts, and CISOs; our internal team at Blink Ops has already generated over 7,000 workflow automations based on common tasks and security standards.

Blink customers can use any of these out-of-the-box automations to scale automation coverage quickly and implement industry best practices fast. 

Get Started with Blink Copilot

Blink Copilot completely transforms how security teams can automate simple and complex workflows, whether it’s responding to alerts, validating user activity with interactive steps, or checking for security policy compliance.

If you want to try it out today, just visit our Blink homepage. You can type your own prompt to see a preview of how Blink Copilot works.

You can either come up with a unique prompt, or use any of the suggested automations that we’ve already generated from the Blink library.

Blink Copilot is backed by a powerful cloud-native security automation platform with robust features like secure workspaces, on-prem runners, and multi-tenant support for MSPs and MSSPs.

Come try Blink Copilot today or schedule a demo to see the full experience.
Sponsored and written by Blink Ops.

	   
            
	  