
	   


Four new vulnerabilities have been discovered in Intel processors that can be exploited via speculative execution side-channel attacks called RIDL, Fallout, and ZombieLoad.

These vulnerabilities allow attackers to steal passwords, cryptographic keys, or any other type of data to be loaded or stored in the memory of the CPU buffers.

The vulnerabilities are being categorized as Microarchitectural Data Sampling (MDS) speculative execution vulnerabilities and are associated with the four uniquely identifiable CVEs below:


1/1





Skip Ad
 
Continue watchingafter the adVisit Advertiser websiteGO TO PAGE.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot{position:absolute;top:0;left:0;grid-area:adslot;opacity:0;background:none;width:100%;height:100%}.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot.cnx-ad-bid-slot-selected{opacity:1;z-index:10}.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot{display:flex;position:absolute;top:0;left:0;justify-content:center;align-items:center;width:100%;height:100%;overflow:hidden}.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot video,.cnx-non-linear-ad-container video.cnx-ad-slot{background-color:unset}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot{position:absolute;top:0;left:0;grid-area:adslot;opacity:0;background:#f4f4f4;width:100%;height:100%}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot.cnx-ad-bid-slot-selected{opacity:1;z-index:10}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot{display:flex;position:absolute;top:0;left:0;justify-content:center;align-items:center;width:100%;height:100%;overflow:hidden}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot div{background-color:rgba(0,0,0,0) !important}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot iframe{box-sizing:border-box;border:3px solid #fff !important;color-scheme:none}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot iframe:not([id]){border:none !important}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot-video-type iframe{border:none !important}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot video,.cnx-ad-container video.cnx-ad-slot{background-color:#f4f4f4}CVE-2018-12126 - Microarchitectural Store Buffer Data Sampling (MSBDS)
	CVE-2018-12130 - Microarchitectural Fill Buffer Data Sampling (MFBDS)
	CVE-2018-12127 - Microarchitectural Load Port Data Sampling (MLPDS)
	CVE-2019-11091 - Microarchitectural Data Sampling Uncacheable Memory (MDSUM)
For more information on how these vulnerabilities work, who discovered them, and how you can test if you are vulnerable, you can read our New RIDL and Fallout Attacks Impact All Modern Intel CPUs article.

Researchers have also setup dedicated pages about these attacks, which are listed below:

ZombieLoad attack
	RIDL and Fallout: MDS attacks
To aid those who are concerned about the vulnerabilities, we have compiled the known vendor advisories and available updates below.

It is important to remember, that the current solutions are mitigations only and do not completely fix the vulnerabilities. To fully resolve these vulnerabilities, all vendors state that you would need to disable hyper-threading, which would have a performance impact on your computer.

If you are a vendor with a advisory or notice or a user who know of one that we are missing, please contact us to have your information added. 

Last Updated: 05/14/19 18:56 EST

Official MDS Advisories, Notices, Patches, or Updates:

Amazon AWS

Amazon has released an advisory stating that they have already deployed mitigations for their EC2 host hardware and have made updated kernels and microcode packages available for Amazon Linux AMIs.


"AWS has designed and implemented its infrastructure with protections against these types of bugs, and has also deployed additional protections for MDS. All EC2 host infrastructure has been updated with these new protections, and no customer action is required at the infrastructure level.  

Updated kernels and microcode packages for Amazon Linux AMI 2018.03 and Amazon Linux 2 are available in the respective repositories (ALAS-2019-1205). As a general security best practice, we recommend that customers patch their operating systems or software as relevant patches become available to address emerging issues. "


Apple

Apple has released two advisories related to the new MDS vulnerabilities.

The first advisory states that security updates have been released for macOS Mojave 10.14.5 to protect against speculative execution attacks on Intel CPUs.

Apple previously released security updates to defend against Spectre—a series of speculative execution vulnerabilities affecting devices with ARM-based and Intel CPUs. Intel has disclosed additional Spectre vulnerabilities, called Microarchitectural Data Sampling (MDS), that apply to desktop and notebook computers with Intel CPUs, including all modern Mac computers.

This advisory goes on to say that "macOS Mojave 10.14.5 fixes this issue for Safari with no measurable performance impact".

Unfortunately, there are many Mac models that these fixes are not supported due to the lack of updated Intel microcodes. The list of unsupported models can be found in the advisory.

The second advisory explains how users can enable full mitigations for Microarchitectural Data Sampling (MDS) vulnerabilities for macOS Mojave, High Sierra, and Sierra. Following these steps, though, will reduce performance by as much as 40% as you need to disable hyper-threading.


The full mitigation, which includes disabling hyper-threading, prevents information leakage across threads and when transitioning between kernel and user space, which is associated with the MDS vulnerabilities for both local and remote (web) attacks.

Testing conducted by Apple in May 2019 showed as much as a 40 percent reduction in performance with tests that include multithreaded workloads and public benchmarks. Performance tests are conducted using specific Mac computers. Actual results will vary based on model, configuration, usage, and other factors.


Citrix

Citrix has released an advisory stating that users need to install the latest microcodes for their processor, install updates for the Citrix software being used, and disable hyper-threading to fully fix these vulnerabilities.

Full mitigation of these issues for systems with vulnerable CPUs requires all of:


Updates to Citrix Hypervisor
	Updates to the CPU microcode
	Disabling CPU hyper-threading (also known as simultaneous multi-threading)


Chromium

The Chromium development team released an advisory stating that they looked into whether they could introduce MDS vulnerability mitigations into the browser, but decided that users should instead rely on operating system security updates instead.

"The Chrome team investigated various mitigation options Chrome could take independently of the OS, but none were sufficiently complete or performant. Users should rely on operating system level mitigations."

Google

Google has also released an advisory that provides information on what Google services or platforms are affected by these vulnerabilities.

Below are their responses regarding some of their more used services:

Google Infrastructure: "The infrastructure that runs Google products (e.g., Search, YouTube, Google Ads products, Maps, Blogger, and other services) and stores customer data is protected against known attacks."
	Android: "The vast majority of Android devices are not affected, as these issues are limited to some Intel-based systems." For devices using Intel infrastructure, you should consult the advisory.
	Google Chrome OS (Chromebooks, etc.): "Google has disabled Hyper-Threading by default on Chrome OS 74 and later. Chrome OS 75 will include additional mitigations."
	Google Apps / G Suite: See the advisory for various information related to each of their services.
A full list of their services and mitigations can be found in their advisory.

Intel

Intel has released an advisory that explains how these vulnerabilities work, mitigations that can be used, and the performance impact of these mitigations, especially by disabling hyper-threading.


Performance impact of disabling hyper-threading

Lenovo

Lenovo has released BIOS updates for the ThinkPad P1 and ThinkPad X1 Extreme laptops.

According to the changelog, the following vulnerabilities are resolved:

[Important updates]
- Enhancement to address security vulnerability CVE-2018-12126, 
  (https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2018-12126) 
  anticipated to be published 05/14/2019. 
- Enhancement to address security vulnerability CVE-2018-12127, 
  (https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2018-12127) 
  anticipated to be published 05/14/2019. 
- Enhancement to address security vulnerability CVE-2018-12130, 
  (https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2018-12130) 
  anticipated to be published 05/14/2019.

Microsoft

Microsoft has released two advisories that offer information on how to mitigate these vulnerabilities. Both Windows clients and servers will need to install the latest microcode updates, Windows security updates, and possibly configure various Windows registry entries.

More information on what to do can be found in these advisories:

ADV190013 | Microsoft Guidance to mitigate Microarchitectural Data Sampling vulnerabilities
	Windows guidance to protect against speculative execution side-channel vulnerabilities
Unfortunately, microcode updates are not available for the following Windows versions, including Windows 10 version 1809, and will be released at a later date:

Windows 10 Version 1803 for x64-based Systems
	Windows Server, version 1803 (Server Core Installation)
	Windows 10 Version 1809 for x64-based Systems
	Windows Server 2019
	Windows Server 2019 (Server Core installation)
As other vendors have stated, "To be fully protected, customers may also need to disable Hyper-Threading (also known as Simultaneous Multi Threading (SMT))"

Redhat

Redhat has released an advisory that states that you must install the latest microcodes for your CPU, upgrade your firmware, and upgrade your kernel. Once again, hyper-threading must be disabled to fully fix the vulnerabilities.

"The order the patches are applied is not important, but after updating firmware and hypervisors, every system/virtual machine will need to power off and restart to recognize a new hardware type."

SUSE

SUSE has posted an advisory, but it does not contain much information. May be a placeholder.

Ubuntu

Ubuntu has released an advisory explaining that users must install microcode updates and an updated kernel in order to mitigate these vulnerabilities. Even with those installed, though, the only true way to resolve these vulnerabilities is to disable hyper-threading.

"Ubuntu recommends disabling Hyper-Threads on affected systems if the system is used to execute untrusted or potentially malicious code."

VMWare

VMWare has released an advisory that contains known updates for their products.

"vCenter Server, ESXi, Workstation, and Fusion updates include Hypervisor-Specific Mitigations for MDS speculative execution vulnerabilities. VMware has evaluated the severity of these issues to be in the Moderate severity range with a maximum CVSSv3 base score of 6.5."

	   

.ia_ad {
    background-color: #f0f6ff;
    width: 95%;
    max-width: 800px;
    margin: 15px auto;
    border-radius: 8px;
    border: 1px solid #d6ddee;
    display: flex;
    align-items: stretch;
    padding: 0;
    overflow: hidden;
}

.ia_lef {
    flex: 1;
    max-width: 200px;
    height: auto;
    display: flex;
    align-items: stretch;
}

.ia_lef a {
    display: flex;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
}


.ia_lef a img {
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
    object-fit: cover;
    border-radius: 8px 0 0 8px;
    margin: 0;
    display: block;
}

.ia_rig {
    flex: 2;
    padding: 10px;
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: column;
    justify-content: center;
}

.ia_rig h2 {
    font-size: 17px !important;
    font-weight: 700;
    color: #333;
    line-height: 1.4;
    font-family: Georgia, "Times New Roman", Times, serif;
    margin: 0 0 14px 0;
}

.ia_rig p {
    font-weight: bold;
    font-size: 14px;
    margin: 0 0 clamp(6px, 2vw, 14px) 0;
}

.ia_button {
    background-color: #FFF;
    border: 1px solid #3b59aa;
    color: black;
    text-align: center;
    text-decoration: none;
    border-radius: 8px;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 16px;
    font-weight: bold;
    cursor: pointer;
    padding: 10px 20px;
    width: fit-content;
}

.ia_button a {
    text-decoration: none;
    color: inherit;
    display: block;
}

@media (max-width: 600px) {
    .ia_ad {
        flex-direction: column;
        align-items: center;
    }

    .ia_lef {
        max-width: 100%;
    }

    .ia_lef a img {
        border-radius: 8px 8px 0 0;
    }


    .ia_rig {
        padding: 15px;
        width: 100%;
    }

    .ia_button {
        width: 100%;
	margin: 0px auto;
    }
}

    
        
            
    
    
        Red Report 2025: Analyzing the Top ATT&CK Techniques Used by 93% of Malware 
Malware targeting password stores surged 3X as attackers executed stealthy Perfect Heist scenarios, infiltrating and exploiting critical systems.
Discover the top 10 MITRE ATT&CK techniques behind 93% of attacks and how to defend against them.
        Read the Red Report 2025
    


           
          
            Related Articles:
	     SonicWall warns of critical access control flaw in SonicOSSonicWall SSLVPN access control flaw is now exploited in attacksReVault flaws let hackers bypass Windows login on Dell laptopsThe Heat Wasn't Just Outside: Cyber Attacks Spiked in Summer 2025Android gets patches for Qualcomm flaws exploited in attacks
	  
 
	  