
	   
Today is the September 2016 Microsoft Patch Tuesday and we have fourteen security updates being released by Microsoft. Of these fourteen updates, seven of them are rated as Critical as they allow remote code execution on the affected computer.

Remote Code Execution vulnerabilities are ones that allow an attacker to remotely execute commands on a computer. These commands could download further software, add user accounts, or perform virtually any action on the vulnerable computer.

All Windows users should immediately run Windows update and install all of the available updates as soon as possible. For a full list of the updates, vulnerabilities, and links to their respective bulletins, please see the table below.

September 2016 Windows Security Updates:

MS16-104 Cumulative Security Update for Internet Explorer (KB3183038) - Critical

This security update resolves vulnerabilities in Internet Explorer. The most severe of the vulnerabilities could allow remote code execution if a user views a specially crafted webpage using Internet Explorer. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerabilities could gain the same user rights as the current user. If the current user is logged on with administrative user rights, an attacker could take control of an affected system. An attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights.


1/1





Skip Ad
 
Continue watchingafter the adVisit Advertiser websiteGO TO PAGE.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot{position:absolute;top:0;left:0;grid-area:adslot;opacity:0;background:none;width:100%;height:100%}.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot.cnx-ad-bid-slot-selected{opacity:1;z-index:10}.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot{display:flex;position:absolute;top:0;left:0;justify-content:center;align-items:center;width:100%;height:100%;overflow:hidden}.cnx-non-linear-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot video,.cnx-non-linear-ad-container video.cnx-ad-slot{background-color:unset}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot{position:absolute;top:0;left:0;grid-area:adslot;opacity:0;background:#f4f4f4;width:100%;height:100%}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-bid-slot.cnx-ad-bid-slot-selected{opacity:1;z-index:10}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot{display:flex;position:absolute;top:0;left:0;justify-content:center;align-items:center;width:100%;height:100%;overflow:hidden}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot div{background-color:rgba(0,0,0,0) !important}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot iframe{box-sizing:border-box;border:3px solid #fff !important;color-scheme:none}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot iframe:not([id]){border:none !important}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot-video-type iframe{border:none !important}.cnx-ad-container .cnx-ad-slot video,.cnx-ad-container video.cnx-ad-slot{background-color:#f4f4f4}This security update is rated Critical for Internet Explorer 9 (IE 9), and Internet Explorer 11 (IE 11) on affected Windows clients, and Moderate for Internet Explorer 9 (IE 9), Internet Explorer 10 (IE 10), and Internet Explorer 11 (IE 11) on affected Windows servers. For more information, see the Affected Software section.

The update addresses the vulnerabilities by correcting how Internet Explorer handles:

zone and integrity settings.
	cross-origin content.
	objects in memory.
	.URL files.
MS16-105 Cumulative Security Update for Microsoft Edge (KB3183043) - Critical

This security update resolves vulnerabilities in Microsoft Edge. The most severe of the vulnerabilities could allow remote code execution if a user views a specially crafted webpage using Microsoft Edge. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerabilities could gain the same user rights as the current user. Customers whose accounts are configured to have fewer user rights on the system could be less impacted than users with administrative user rights.

This security update is rated Critical for Microsoft Edge on Windows 10. For more information, see theAffected Software section.

The update addresses the vulnerabilities by:

modifying how Microsoft Edge and certain functions handle objects in memory.
	modifying how the Chakra JavaScript scripting engine handles objects in memory.
	correcting how Microsoft Edge handles cross-origin requests.
	ensuring that Microsoft Edge properly implements the Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) security feature.
	helping to ensure that Microsoft Edge properly validates page content.
MS16-106 Security Update for Microsoft Graphics Component (KB3185848) - Critical

This security update resolves vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows. The most severe of the vulnerabilities could allow remote code execution if a user either visits a specially crafted website or opens a specially crafted document. Users whose accounts are configured to have fewer user rights on the system could be less impacted than users who operate with administrative user rights.

This security update is rated Critical for supported editions of Windows 10 Version 1607 and rated Important for all other supported releases of Windows:

The security update addresses the vulnerabilities by correcting how certain Windows kernel-mode drivers and the Windows Graphics Device Interface(GDI) handle objects in memory and by preventing instances of unintended user-mode privilege elevation. For more information, see the Affected Software and Vulnerability Severity Ratings section.

MS16-107 Security Update for Microsoft Office (KB3185852) - Critical

This security update resolves vulnerabilities in Microsoft Office. The most severe of the vulnerabilities could allow remote code execution if a user opens a specially crafted Microsoft Office file. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerabilities could run arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Customers whose accounts are configured to have fewer user rights on the system could be less impacted than those who operate with administrative user rights.

For more information, see the Affected Software and Vulnerability Severity Ratings section.

The security update addresses the vulnerabilities by correcting how:

Microsoft Office saves documents.
	Click-to-Run components handle memory addresses.
	affected versions of Office and Office components handle objects in memory.
	Microsoft Outlook determines the end of MIME messages.
MS16-108 Security Update for Microsoft Exchange Server (KB3185883) - Critical

This security update resolves vulnerabilities in Microsoft Exchange Server. The most severe of the vulnerabilities could allow remote code execution in some Oracle Outside In libraries that are built into Exchange Server if an attacker sends an email with a specially crafted attachment to a vulnerable Exchange server.

This security update is rated Critical for all supported editions of Microsoft Exchange Server 2007, Microsoft Exchange Server 2010, Microsoft Exchange Server 2013, and Microsoft Exchange Server 2016. For more information, see the Affected Software and Vulnerability Severity Ratings section.

The security update addresses the vulnerabilities by correcting how Microsoft Exchange:

parses certain unstructured file formats.
	handles open redirect requests.
	handles Microsoft Outlook meeting invitation requests.
MS16-109 Security Update for Silverlight (KB3182373) - Important

This security update resolves a vulnerability in Microsoft Silverlight. The vulnerability could allow remote code execution if a user visits a compromised website that contains a specially crafted Silverlight application. An attacker would have no way to force a user to visit a compromised website. Instead, an attacker would have to convince the user to visit the website, typically by enticing the user to click a link in either an email or instant message that takes the user to the attacker's website.

This security update is rated Important for Microsoft Silverlight 5 and Microsoft Silverlight 5 Developer Runtime when installed on Mac or all supported releases of Microsoft Windows. For more information, see the Affected Software section.

The update addresses the vulnerability by correcting how Microsoft Silverlight allocates memory for inserting and appending strings in StringBuilder. For more information about the vulnerabilities, see theVulnerability Information section.

MS16-110 Security Update for Microsoft Windows (KB3178467) - Important

This security update resolves vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows. The most severe of the vulnerabilities could allow remote code execution if an attacker creates a specially crafted request and executes arbitrary code with elevated permissions on a target system.

This security update is rated Important for all supported releases of Microsoft Windows excluding Itanium servers, which are not affected. For more information, see the Affected Software and Vulnerability Severity Ratings section.

The security update addresses the vulnerabilities by:

correcting how Windows enforces permissions.
	preventing NT LAN Manager (NTLM) Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication to non-private SMB resources when users are signed in to Windows via a Microsoft Account (https://www.microsoft.com/account) and connected to a “Guest or public networks” firewall profile.
	correcting how Windows handles objects in memory.
MS16-111 Security Update for Windows Kernel (KB3186973) - Important

This security update resolves vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows. The vulnerabilities could allow elevation of privilege if an attacker runs a specially crafted application on a target system.

This security update is rated Important for all supported releases of Microsoft Windows. For more information, see the Affected Software and Vulnerability Severity Ratings section.

The security update addresses the vulnerabilities by correcting how Windows handles session objects, and by correcting how the Windows Kernel API enforces user permissions and restricts access to user information. For more information about the vulnerabilities, see the Vulnerability Information section.

MS16-112 Security Update for Windows Lock Screen (KB3178469) - Important

This security update resolves a vulnerability in Microsoft Windows. The vulnerability could allow elevation of privilege if Windows improperly allows web content to load from the Windows lock screen.

This security update is rated Important for all supported editions of Windows 8.1, Windows RT 8.1, Windows Server 2012 R2, and Windows 10. For more information, see the Affected Software and Vulnerability Severity Ratings section.

The security update addresses the vulnerability by correcting the behavior of the Windows lock screen to prevent unintended web content from loading. For more information about the vulnerabilities, see theVulnerability Information section.

MS16-113 Security Update for Windows Secure Kernel Mode (KB3185876) - Important

This security update resolves a vulnerability in Microsoft Windows. The vulnerability could allow information disclosure when Windows Secure Kernel Mode improperly handles objects in memory.

This security update is rated Important for all supported editions of Windows 10 and Windows 10 Version 1511. For more information, see the Affected Software and Vulnerability Severity Ratings section.

The security update addresses the vulnerability by correcting how Windows handles objects in memory to prevent information disclosure. For more information about the vulnerability, see the Vulnerability Information section.

MS16-114 Security Update for Windows SMBv1 Server (KB3185879) - Important

This security update resolves a vulnerability in Microsoft Windows. On Windows Vista, Windows Server 2008, Windows 7, and Windows Server 2008 R2 operating systems, the vulnerability could allow remote code execution if an authenticated attacker sends specially crafted packets to an affected Microsoft Server Message Block 1.0 (SMBv1) Server. The vulnerability does not impact other SMB Server versions. Although later operating systems are affected, the potential impact is denial of service.

This security update is rated Important for all supported releases of Microsoft Windows. For more information, see the Affected Software and Vulnerability Severity Ratings section.

The security update addresses the vulnerability by correcting how the Microsoft SMBv1 Server handles specially crafted requests. For more information about the vulnerability, see the Vulnerability Informationsection.

MS16-115 Security Update for Microsoft Windows PDF Library (KB3188733) - Important

This security update resolves vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows. The vulnerabilities could allow information disclosure if a user views specially crafted PDF content online or opens a specially crafted PDF document.

This security update is rated Important for all supported editions of Windows 8.1, Windows Server 2012, Windows RT 8.1, Windows Server 2012 R2, and Windows 10. For more information, see the Affected Software and Vulnerability Severity Ratings section.

The security update addresses the vulnerabilities by correcting how certain functions handle objects in memory. For more information about the vulnerability, see the Vulnerability Information section.

MS16-116 Security Update in OLE Automation for VBScript Scripting Engine (KB3188724) - Critical

This security update resolves a vulnerability in Microsoft Windows. The vulnerability could allow remote code execution if an attacker successfully convinces a user of an affected system to visit a malicious or compromised website. Note that you must install two updates to be protected from the vulnerability discussed in this bulletin: The update in this bulletin, MS16-116, and the update in MS16-104.

The security update affects all supported releases of Microsoft Windows and is rated Critical on client operating systems and Moderate on servers. For more information, see the Affected Software section.

This security update, in conjunction with the Internet Explorer update in MS16-104, addresses the vulnerability by correcting how the Microsoft OLE Automation mechanism and the VBScript Scripting Engine in Internet Explorer handle objects in memory. For more information about the vulnerability, see theVulnerability Information section.

MS16-117 Security Update for Adobe Flash Player (KB3188128)  - Critical

This security update resolves vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash Player when installed on all supported editions of Windows 8.1, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows RT 8.1, and Windows 10.

This security update is rated Critical. The update addresses the vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash Player by updating the affected Adobe Flash libraries contained within Internet Explorer 10, Internet Explorer 11, and Microsoft Edge. For more information, see the Affected Software section.

Get updating!

	   

.ia_ad {
    background-color: #f0f6ff;
    width: 95%;
    max-width: 800px;
    margin: 15px auto;
    border-radius: 8px;
    border: 1px solid #d6ddee;
    display: flex;
    align-items: stretch;
    padding: 0;
    overflow: hidden;
}

.ia_lef {
    flex: 1;
    max-width: 200px;
    height: auto;
    display: flex;
    align-items: stretch;
}

.ia_lef a {
    display: flex;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
}


.ia_lef a img {
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
    object-fit: cover;
    border-radius: 8px 0 0 8px;
    margin: 0;
    display: block;
}

.ia_rig {
    flex: 2;
    padding: 10px;
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: column;
    justify-content: center;
}

.ia_rig h2 {
    font-size: 17px !important;
    font-weight: 700;
    color: #333;
    line-height: 1.4;
    font-family: Georgia, "Times New Roman", Times, serif;
    margin: 0 0 14px 0;
}

.ia_rig p {
    font-weight: bold;
    font-size: 14px;
    margin: 0 0 clamp(6px, 2vw, 14px) 0;
}

.ia_button {
    background-color: #FFF;
    border: 1px solid #3b59aa;
    color: black;
    text-align: center;
    text-decoration: none;
    border-radius: 8px;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 16px;
    font-weight: bold;
    cursor: pointer;
    padding: 10px 20px;
    width: fit-content;
}

.ia_button a {
    text-decoration: none;
    color: inherit;
    display: block;
}

@media (max-width: 600px) {
    .ia_ad {
        flex-direction: column;
        align-items: center;
    }

    .ia_lef {
        max-width: 100%;
    }

    .ia_lef a img {
        border-radius: 8px 8px 0 0;
    }


    .ia_rig {
        padding: 15px;
        width: 100%;
    }

    .ia_button {
        width: 100%;
	margin: 0px auto;
    }
}

    
        
            
    
    
        Red Report 2025: Analyzing the Top ATT&CK Techniques Used by 93% of Malware 
Malware targeting password stores surged 3X as attackers executed stealthy Perfect Heist scenarios, infiltrating and exploiting critical systems.
Discover the top 10 MITRE ATT&CK techniques behind 93% of attacks and how to defend against them.
        Read the Red Report 2025
    


           
          
            Related Articles:
	     Microsoft July 2025 Patch Tuesday fixes one zero-day, 137 flawsMicrosoft June 2025 Patch Tuesday fixes exploited zero-day, 66 flawsWindows 10 KB5060533 cumulative update released with 7 changes, fixesMicrosoft releases emergency patches for SharePoint RCE flaws exploited in attacksWindows 10 KB5062554 update breaks emoji panel search feature
	  
 
	  