
The digital age has proven itself to be a blessing and a curse at the same time. What makes it a blessing is that it provides us with plenty of conveniences thanks to the power of the Internet. Yet, the curse is the potential cybersecurity concerns that always arise.
Financial accounts are one of the top targets for cybercriminals. So you have every right to be concerned when it comes to your bank account. If you have an online savings account, these five signs we’ll list below could be something to look for.
As you open up your savings account dashboard, you want to look for certain signs and features using this guide. If you feel the least bit worried, it may be a good idea to switch banks that offer excellent security. Let’s dive in right now.
1.It has SSL certificates
The first thing to look for is whether or not the bank that offers your online savings account has SSL certificates. These are designed to encrypt data that is transmitted between the device you’re using and your bank’s servers. Of course, this will make sure that any sensitive information is protected whether it’s login details or similar information.
One way to confirm this is by looking for an URL that starts with “https://”. The ‘s’ represents secure. If “http” is in the URL instead, this can be a concern as it can indicate an unsecure connection. Reputable banks with online savings accounts include these elements that reflect the security measures that are inherent. If your bank isn’t taking security seriously, it may be time to make a switch to a bank that does.
You could get an online savings account with Customers Bank interest rates that are competitive compared to the others. Not only do you have security, but also financial peace of mind knowing that saving money with good interest rates is always a good thing.
2.Two-factor authentication is available
Two-factor authentication or 2FA is one of the best security features to protect your bank account from cyber attacks. While entering your password is one thing, 2FA makes it so that you can be able to verify that you actually did log in. After a password is put in, a confirmation email complete with a code will be sent to your inbox.
Alternatively, it can be sent to you via text or generated by an authenticator app. Either way, 2FA has proven its worth as one of the most reliable security tools in the digital world today. Who says you cannot have too much when it comes to cyber protection.
3.Regular security audits
Cyber attacks can happen any time. Plus, they can evolve into different versions. So it would be wise for an online bank to perform regular security audits to ensure that their customers are safe. Vulnerabilities that exist will need to be addressed promptly since it can be a race against the clock.
You’ll never know if and when a cybercriminal will be ready to strike. The sooner the vulnerability is fixed, the better. Having a bank that will be able to look out for the best interests of their customers’ safety is a major gold star for them. It’s all thanks to investing in excellent security systems, conducting frequent audits, and being transparent with security certifications that can be viewed publicly.
4.Strong password generator
Password strength can play a huge role in safeguarding your bank account online. If your bank has a feature where it can generate strong passwords, that’s a green flag. In fact, it may as well be an unwritten requirement to include such policies.
This means updating your password on a regular basis (and writing them down on a piece of paper while keeping it in a secure place at home). While it may seem tedious and even frustrating, it could save you a lot of hassle that otherwise may occur if your account gets compromised (assuming it’s through a different bank).
5.Login processes + user verification
The final sign is ensuring that both logins are secure and offer user verification. Already, we’ve touched on 2FA being one version of the verification process. Multi-step authentication like image-based verification, challenge questions, and other CAPTCHA activities could play a role in making sure that your login process is as secure as possible.
Final Thoughts
These five signs are something to look out for when it comes to how secure your online savings account might be. The thing to remember is some financial institutions may get careless when it comes to the security of your sensitive financial data. If you feel like making a switch to a bank that cares about your security more than anything, Customers Bank is the go to place. Consider whether or not it’s the best place to move your money today.