
The much-anticipated final release of Kali Linux for 2024.4 is here, packed with many updates, new hacking tools, and powerful features, from a new default Python version to the discontinuation of i386 kernel support.
Kali Linux 2024.4 is designed to keep pentesters and enthusiasts ahead of the curve.  Kali Linux is packed with numerous Information Security tools specifically designed for a wide range of penetration testing activities like:-

Security Research
Reverse Engineering
Red Team Testing
Penetration Testing
Computer Forensics
Vulnerability Management
Users can now download the new version or update their existing installations. Here’s a detailed look at the highlights of this release.
Kali Linux 2024.4 Loaded with New Tools
The Kali linux 2024.4 release includes 14 new tools to expand its already impressive arsenal. Highlights include:

bloodyad – Active Directory privilege escalation framework
certi – Ask for certificates to ADCS and discover templates
chainsaw – Rapidly search and hunt through Windows forensic artefacts
findomain – Fastest and most complete solution for domain recognition
hexwalk – Hex analyzer, editor and viewer
linkedin2username – Generate username lists for companies on LinkedIn
mssqlpwner – Interact and pwn MSSQL servers
openssh-ssh1 – Secure SHell (SSH) client for legacy SSH1 protocol
proximoth – Control frame attack vulnerability detection tool
python-pipx – Execute binaries from Python packages in isolated environments
sara – RouterOS Security Inspector
web-cache-vulnerability-scanner – Go-based CLI tool for testing for web cache poisoning
xsrfprobe – An advanced Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF/XSRF) audit and exploitation toolkit.
zenmap – The Network Mapper (nmap) front end (zenmap-kbx is no longer needed!)
These tools and several updated libraries enhance the pentesting workflow, consolidating Kali Linux’s reputation as a go-to platform for security professionals.
Python 3.12 Becomes the Default Version
Kali Linux 2024.4 introduces Python 3.12 as the new default interpreter, marking the end of pip in favor of pipx for installing third-party Python packages.
This shift prioritizes environment isolation for better application management—a move aimed at reinforcing security and efficiency.
Kali Linux bids goodbye to the long-overdue i386 kernel and images, in line with Debian’s decision to drop support for this 32-bit architecture. While i386 packages will remain available for 64-bit systems, the era of creating i386 images is officially over.
Free Webinar on Best Practices for API vulnerability & Penetration Testing:  Free Registration
Deprecation of DSA Keys in SSH
The latest OpenSSH version (9.8p1) further streamlines security by deprecating DSA keys. Kali Linux continues to provide wide compatibility for older protocols through its kali-tweaks tool, although users targeting legacy SSH servers can fall back on the included SSH1 client.
For penetration testers, assessing whether a target server has legacy features enabled is a critical step in uncovering potential vulnerabilities.
Recognizing this need, the Kali Linux team has streamlined the process with kali-tweaks, a command-line tool that now offers the ability to quickly enable all legacy features at once.
“This tool is a simple menu that allows you to configure various aspects of Kali. In the Hardening section, you can configure SSH for Wide Compatibility (instead of the default Strong Security), and that’s all you need to do to maximize the capabilities of your SSH client.”
Customizations for Raspberry Pi Imager
A game-changer for Raspberry Pi enthusiasts, Kali Linux now supports customizations directly from the Raspberry Pi Imager software. Users can pre-configure settings like usernames, Wi-Fi network credentials, and SSH keys before booting, making the experience more seamless than ever.
GNOME 47 with Accent Color Options
The desktop environment gets a visual boost with GNOME 47, introducing support for accent color customization. Kali has also synchronized these settings across icon themes and legacy GTK themes, ensuring a cohesive aesthetic.
Kali NetHunter Enhancements
In this release, Kali NetHunter—an Android penetration testing platform sees multiple updates:

Introduction of Wifipumpkin3, a replacement for the Mana toolkit that enables the creation of fake access points with internet access, even on mobile networks.
Users can now flash kernels directly from the app without requiring recovery mode.
The NetHunter Store, powered by F-Droid, has been updated for better usability and security.
Device support has also been expanded, with 100 supported devices, including the first Android 15-compatible device (Xiaomi Mi A3).

Added support to Realme X7 Max 5G (RMX3031)
Added support to Xiaomi Mi 9 Lite / CC9 (pyxis)
Updated support for Nokia 6.1 & 6.1 Plus (drg)
Updated support for Realme C11 (RMX2185)
Updated support for Xiaomi Mi 9T (davinci)
Updated support for Xiaomi Mi A3 (xiaomi-laurel)
Updated support for Xiaomi Pocophone F1 (beryllium)

First Android 15 device support (Xiaomi Mi A3 (xiaomi-laurel))
Generating a lot more pre-created images
The “body of knowledge” file, devices.cfg, which indexes everything, has now been turned into YAML, devices.yml.
Support for Raspberry Pi 5 and 500
Kali Linux continues its strong support for ARM systems by adding customization options and quality-of-life upgrades. Newly supported devices include the Raspberry Pi 500 and Realme X7 Max 5G. Plus, graphical performance on Raspberry Pi 5 has been improved with Kernel Mode Setting enabled by default.
The refreshed Kali Forums now run on Discourse, with active community participation. Documentation has also been significantly updated, featuring new pages on NetHunter installation, pipx usage, and SSH settings.
The release celebrates contributions from community members and security researchers who have improved tools, documentation, and device support.
How to Get Kali Linux 2024.4
For Fresh Installations: Download the latest ISO images from Kali’s official website. For those seeking access to the latest updates, Kali also offers weekly builds.
For Existing Users: Simply upgrade your installation by running the following commands:
sudo apt update && sudo apt -y full-upgrade
Kali Linux 2024.4 is a testament to the platform’s commitment to innovation and community-driven development. The updates and tools in this release are tailored for pentesters, developers, and cybersecurity professionals alike. For detailed guidance or to report bugs, visit the official Kali website or reach out via their bug tracker.
Investigate Real-World Malicious Links, Malware & Phishing Attacks With ANY.RUN – Try for Free
zenmap-kbx
devices.cfg
devices.yml