
Argo CD is a popular Kubernetes tool created for continuous deployment and GitOps workflows. It is an easy-to-use system with robust features and the ability to integrate with Kubernetes environments seamlessly. However, just like all software, its effectiveness depends on how it is used. Failing to use it properly undermines the tool’s benefits and can even lead to extra exposure to threats.
To take full advantage of Argo CD, here are key steps and best practices to ensure efficient and secure continuous delivery with Kubernetes.
Ensure Proper Installation and Setup
To start, it is crucial to work with the most recent version of Argo CD, to make sure it has the latest features and security patches. A number of security issues have been discovered in Argo CD over the years, like the repo-server component issue that was reported this past autumn. Argo CD is a well-maintained open-source project that the community generally updates quickly, whenever bugs are discovered, so it is important to always deploy the latest version.
Argo CD can be installed through different methods, including Helm charts, K8s manifests, and package managers. It is important to choose the method that is in line with your organization’s infrastructure and preferred deployment. Many prefer to use Argo CD with Helm charts, as this makes extensive customization options available. Kubernetes manifests, on the other hand, can be a good option for those who prefer fine-grained control over the installation process itself.
After installation, it is important to carefully configure access controls. Implement authentication mechanisms on Argo CD UI and API access. Ensure user authentication by configuring providers such as LDAP, OIDC, and SAML. Additionally, enable Transport Layer Security (TLS) and define network policies to limit access only to trusted sources and regulate the traffic flow to and fro the Argo CD components.
Embrace the GitOps Workflow
It is advisable to adopt the GitOps workflow, which calls for the use of Git commits and pull requests whenever there are changes to the Kubernetes applications. Through this workflow, Argo CD continuously tracks Git repositories and makes sure that the cluster state corresponds to the desired state indicated in Git. Here, Git repositories serve as the sole source of truth for the definition and management of infrastructure and app configurations.
The GitOps workflow also provides the benefit of greater visibility, which enables easy tracking of changes. It readily presents details on what changes were made, when they were made, and who made them. Incidentally, this generates an audit trail that is highly useful for troubleshooting, compliance, and deployment analysis.
Moreover, the GitOps workflow supports collaboration and code reviews, making it easy to propose changes and send pull requests. It allows team members to review each other’s changes before anything is deployed to production.
Use Declarative Configuration as Leverage
Argo CD operates based on declarative configurations, which are usually associated with the enhanced efficiency and manageability of Kubernetes deployments. Declarative configurations are generally consistent, as they entail explicit definitions, stored in Git repositories, for the desired state of configurations and infrastructure. This also comes with the benefit of repeatability, since the desired states only need to be defined once and can then be applied consistently across multiple environments.
Declarative configurations are also compatible with the automation of deployment processes. As mentioned, Argo CD continuously monitors Git repositories to track configuration changes to automatically reflect them in the desired and actual states of Kubernetes clusters. In effect, this reduces manual intervention and streamlines the workflow of deployment to speed up deployments, especially when rolling out new features or application updates.
To take advantage of the declarative nature of configurations with Argo CD, always define application manifests, deployment specifications, and other configurations in Git repositories. This ensures that problems associated with inconsistencies and human error are avoided.
Take Advantage of Argo CD’s CRD or UI
Argo CD has Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs), which serve as a way to extend the K8s API through the use of custom resources that are specific to Argo CD’s functionality.
They enable the definition and management of custom objects representing apps, app sets, projects, and resources. CRDs are used to define custom resources for specific deployment workflows and automated deployment processes. In other words, these CRDs allow application definition to provide native support in the management of applications as well as projects and repositories, laying out the synchronization of operations within K8s clusters.
It is also possible to define applications through the Argo CD UI. Doing this is a relatively straightforward process. The controls are on the Applications page, which should be easy to spot in the Argo CD dashboard. In the Applications page, add a new application and proceed to fill in the application details, including the namespace, repository URL, path, and sync policy.
Integrate Argo CD with CI/CD Pipelines
Argo CD can be integrated with continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipelines to streamline the software delivery process. This enables end-to-end automation, from code commit to production. It also enhances collaboration between the development and operations teams, ensuring more efficient and reliable deployments.
To integrate Argo CD with CI/CD, it is important to choose a CI/CD tool that is compatible with an organization’s requirements. Some of the top options are GitLab CI/CD, GitHub Actions, and Jenkins. Next, the CI/CD pipeline has to be defined, the application builds, tests, and packages in particular. The next steps are to push images to the registry, trigger Argo CD Sync, define Argo CD applications, and configure the webhooks or events.
There are many guides online on how to do this in detail, like this one from RedHat on using Argo CD with OpenShift Pipelines.
Observe Security Best Practices
Aside from implementing authentication and authorization, as mentioned above, it is important to observe security best practices. These include prudent secrets management like not storing sensitive information directly in Argo CD configuration files, instead using Kubernetes Secrets or an external secrets management tool like HashiCorp Vault, and the encryption of secrets in transit and at rest.
It is also important to set up comprehensive audit logging and centralize audit logs, set up ingress and egress rules to control how Argo CD components talk to outside services, and make sure that the configuration, app manifests, and cluster state of Argo CD are backed up regularly.
Argo CD comes with a host of security functions, but they may not readily protect from cyber threats. Some functions require proper configuration to address specific requirements. Be sure to pay ample attention to the security aspect of using Argo CD to achieve the best outcomes with it.
Final Words
Argo CD comes with a long list of features that organizations need to get properly acquainted with to take full advantage of the tool. It is an excellent solution for efficiently and securely deploying configurations and applications to Kubernetes clusters, but it is important to know how to make good use of it. To condense the ideas discussed above, it is important to properly install and set up Argo CD, get used to the GitOps workflow, and use key features particularly those for defining custom resources and applications, integrating with CI/CD pipelines, and securing operations.