
Today, we take another step forward in enhancing the security infrastructure for our enterprise clients with the release of the Audit Log feature.
Our new Audit Logs are specifically engineered to provide Socket organization administrators with a means to monitor team member activities pertaining to their organization. It includes tracking of changes made to the active Security Policy, invitations sent to new members, the generation of API keys, and more. The Audit Log tracks over two dozen different action types.
For each event, the Audit Log records comprehensive details, including what was changed, when it happened, and additional context like IP address and location.
For organizations on the Enterprise + Business plans, the Audit Log is accessible by organization owners and administrators under the "Settings" page of their Socket dashboard. Records will only be available for actions made as of the release of this feature and moving forward.
The Audit Log comes with the ability to be filtered by action type and allows for easy export of records in CSV and JSON formats so the data can be easily exported for compliance reviews or internal audits.
In the event that something goes wrong, the new Audit Log can be valuable for tracking down the changes that precipitated the issue, especially for fast-moving teams with frequent deployments. Audit logs can save teams time in debugging issues and serve as an authoritative timeline for actions and events in your development history.
We value your feedback on the Audit Log feature and are committed to continually evolving our tools to meet your needs. Share your thoughts with us!
For future updates on this feature, please consult the Audit Logs page in our documentation.
If you're not using Socket yet, install Socket for GitHub today, or book a demo to explore how Socket can bolster your project's security and help you more effectively monitor your software dependencies.
If you're an existing Socket user, but not on the Enterprise + Business plan yet, please get in touch with your account executive or security architect who can assist you with upgrading your account.