
We're gearing up for an unforgettable week at BSidesSF and RSA, and we’re excited to meet you in San Francisco! We know this week can be hectic, so Socket is putting together some laid-back security events this time around. It's a great chance to relax and meet some interesting people in the industry.
If your schedule permits, we'd love to have you join us. These events have always been a blast, and we're excited about the fantastic groups joining us this time.
🌟 Here's what's happening:
Book a Meeting with our Executive Team #
Meet our Founder and CEO, Feross, and other members of our leadership team. Get a sneak peek into what we’re working on and check out a live demo of how we block all the worst code from landing in your repos.

When: Tuesday, May 7th
Book Time: Book Your Meeting Now
Location: 165 ½ 4th St, San Francisco, CA
Socket Booth at BSidesSF #
Come meet the team, grab some Socket swag, and get your sponsor passport stamped!

When: Saturday and Sunday from 9am-5pm
Location: City View Metreon
Socket & Pangea Happy Hour#
We’re hosting a happy hour with our friends at Pangea and RAD Security. Come relax with us for drinks and appetizers, and meet some new people ahead of RSA!

When: Sunday, May 5th, starting at 5:30pm
Location: Fang Restaurant, 660 Howard St, San Francisco, CA 94105
RSVP: https://info.pangea.cloud/5/5/24-bsides-happy-hour-sign-up
Socket & Truffle Security Dinner #
Join us for dinner and enjoy an evening of engaging discussions with technology leaders in a more intimate setting. It's the perfect opportunity to connect with other leaders in the industry and chat about all aspects of security.

When: Monday, May 6th at 6-9pm
RSVP: https://lu.ma/socket-security-dinner-May2024
Party in the RSA - Socket & Material Security #
Large parties and over-the-top entertainment not your scene? Swing by our spot for a chill evening with your friends after the conference wraps up.

When: Tuesday, May 7th at 4:45-7pm
RSVP: https://content.material.security/material-rsa-party-invite
Location: 165 ½ 4th St, San Francisco, CA

📌 Make sure to RSVP to secure your spot at these events.
We understand that with so many events happening, it can be overwhelming to decide where to spend your time. That's why we want to make it simple for you to connect with us, as well as other professionals who are passionate about making a difference in tech security.
Choose the event that’s the best fit for you and come meet the team behind Socket. We're looking forward to a fantastic RSA and BSidesSF week and hope to see you at one of our events!