

Google has laid off many leading lights of the open source world. This will have a profound effect on software supply chain security.
One of the many people fired was Chris DiBona (pictured). Until January 20, he was Google’s director of open source, holding the position since 2004.
Patronage from firms such as Google was key to funding security-critical open source projects — for example, BoringSSL/Tink, Samba and Kubernetes, to name but three. In this week’s Secure Software Blogwatch, will the last to leave please turn off the lights?
Your humble blogwatcher curated these bloggy bits for your entertainment. Not to mention: Faces.
Don’t be evil
What’s the craic? Steven J. Vaughan-Nichols asks, “What is Google doing with its open source teams?”:
How bad a move was that? Matt Asay investigates and analyzes — “Google blew it”:
Apparently, they were fired by email. As Elizabeth Spiers opines, firms such as Google “Show What Employers Really Think of Their Workers”:
Really, though? Really. Yet Another Anonymous coward puts it pithily:
But all that open source stuff doesn’t make money. That’s an incredibly short sighted view, says rektide:
Google hasn’t cared about this for some years, argues u/PistolasAlAmanecer:
Plenty of other firms support open source. But Robert Grant reminds us of the scale of Google’s work:
There’s context here. As described by John Naughton — “Why has Alphabet hit the panic button?”:
Conversational AI replacing search? rich_sasha doesn’t buy it:
Meanwhile, TheWrongen offers this neat précis:
And Finally:
This video does not exist


Previously in And finally
You have been reading Secure Software Blogwatch by Richi Jennings. Richi curates the best bloggy bits, finest forums, and weirdest websites … so you don’t have to. Hate mail may be directed to @RiCHi or ssbw@richi.uk. Ask your doctor before reading. Your mileage may vary. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Do not stare into laser with remaining eye. E&OE. 30.
Image sauce: Joi Ito (cc:by; leveled and cropped)