
You’re making sure your developers can develop, your managers can manage, your customers can … custom? Well, no, but you get the idea. You’re making sure everything runs smoothly. On a good day, nothing breaks and your job isn’t even visible. Kudos to you, sysadmins!

Happy System Administrator Appreciation Day

Enjoy the cake, pizza and/or ice cream that your users surely brought you. If not, well, emails can sometimes get stuck in the Internet pipes. For days. Or weeks. But you don’t hold grudges, you save the day – over and over again. And we thank you for that.
Keeping systems, applications and users working together happily is the visible face of countless hours doing grunt work, researching and going down endless rabbit holes riddled with cryptic errors messages and strange settings, until everything just “clicks” together nicely and it works.
We at TuxCare strive to give you the right tools to alleviate some of the burden and boring bits of the job – like patching, so that you can have more time, not just on SysAdmin day, but every day, all year long, to devote to tasks that let you shine at what you do best: being the hero of the day, every day!
So again, kudos to all the System Administrators out there. You deserve it!

If You’re Not a Sysadmin

…avoid creating new tickets today. Stop by the sysadmin’s office and drop a “thank you for everything you do” or “I really appreciate how you’ve helped me so many times this past year”. They deserve it and will keep them happy and your emails will continue to arrive on time.

A Gift To You: A Look at 3 Months of Linux Kernel CVEs

This year, TuxCare is releasing a no-strings attached downloadable report looking at the Linux Kernel CNA changes and how it has (dramatically) impacted sysadmins’ workloads. In it, you’ll find information about the sudden shift in Kernel policy around CVEs, how different versions are now being impacted by a flood of new (and old!) vulnerabilities, and how everything fits together in the overall picture of cybersecurity and system administration work. For example, did you know that in just three months time, there are twice as many new CVEs impacting the Linux Kernel (over 2k!) as there were in the whole 2006-to-2018 period?
Also, there is backing data to support the idea that more recent kernel versions are subject to more vulnerabilities – by containing less mature code and having more eyes on them – and how this could impact your upgrade plans.
We partnered with ADMIN magazine to make it available here for all interested parties, and we hope you find it useful information. Maybe relax a bit during this System Administrator Appreciation Day and go over it. It will probably leave you hoping for some vacation time, but then again, more knowledge is always a plus in the sysadmin tool set.