
Linux is an operating system just like Windows, iOS and MacOS. Android is powered by Linux OS. Operating system is basically software that controls the communication between a software and a hardware.
A VPN (virtual private network) is a privacy tool that provides users with online privacy and anonymity. To achieve this goal, a VPN creates a private network from a public internet connection.
In order to provide users with the necessary privacy, VPNs mask users internet protocol (IP) address so that their online actions are virtually undetectable. VPNs are therefore capable of establishing secure and encrypted connections that offer users more privacy than even a secure Wi-Fi hotspot.
Using VPN under Linux can be a very good initiative, which also has its weaknesses.
Some benefits of using VPN on Linux include privacy, security, unblocking websites, torrenting and eliminating bandwidth throttling.
For privacy, a VPN can help keep users anonymous, as it has the ability to disguise their IP address and encrypt their connection.
Now that users are anonymous, their security is better ensured, and since they will receive a new IP address every time they go online, it will be difficult to track users, and this could also help to reduce doxing- and DDoS-attacks.
With VPN, users can access websites that are restricted to them due to location and other factors.
Due to its torrenting capabilities, VPNs can keep Linux users private when downloading OS ISO files over P2P networks.
With VPN, users can download files that are restricted by their Internet Service Providers (ISPs). This is possible because a VPN disguises the traffic of users, making it impossible to restrict their access.
There are several disadvantages of using VPN on Linux, some of which involve a delay in connection speed, can sometimes not guarantee security and privacy, the ability to be tracked, and are ultimately difficult to configure.
VPN can delay connection speed and this could be caused by several factors such as location, server availability and internet connection speed.
Users may not get the security and privacy they want when using a VPN, especially those that are offered for free. Paid VPNs offer stronger encryption and security, but do not guarantee maximum security and privacy.
On website tracking, VPN users can be tracked when they visit websites that require the use of cookies or the provision of information because these websites use their real public IP address.
Using VPN on Linux is fraught with configuration difficulties, users may be forced to configure the VPN themselves, and since it is critical that they configure it correctly, a lot of time and formality may be required.
The sources for this piece include an article in LinuxSecurity.