
Tails 5.13, a privacy-focused Debian-based GNU/Linux distribution, has been released with important changes for enhanced anonymity and file security. The Amnesic Incognito Live System, or Tails OS, connects to the internet through the Tor network, enabling users to browse the web and communicate online without disclosing their IP address or location.

Tails 5.13: New Features and Updates
Starting with Tails 5.13, by default, newly generated Persistent storage and LUKS encrypted volume now use version 2 of the Linux Unified Key Setup (LUKS) disk encryption specification.
LUKS2, the second-generation LUKS specification, offers stronger cryptography by default compared to its predecessor. However, Tails 5.13 does not enable LUKS2 on existing Persistent Storage and LUKS encrypted volumes. The development team plans to provide a migration plan from LUKS1 to LUKS2 in Tails 5.14 (scheduled for June 2023).
In addition, Tails 5.13 includes the popular command-line tool called cURL for secure file downloads over protocols like HTTPS and FTP. cURL is short for Client URL and enables data transfer to or from the server.
Developers suggest it can be utilized for online investigations as an alternative to GNU Wget. All curl activities are routed through the Tor network. If you want to utilize curl on a local network, please use /usr/bin/curl instead.
Furthermore, Tails 5.13 includes the latest Tor Browser 12.0.6, an anonymous web browser based on Mozilla Firefox 102.11.ESR. It also brings various improvements, such as an updated Unsafe Browser feature, documentation, Welcome Screen, and several bug fixes and security updates mentioned in the changelog.
If you seek online anonymity and protection against surveillance and censorship, Tails OS is a reliable option. You can download Tails5.13 as a live ISO or USB image from the official website. This release maintains the Linux 6.1 LTS kernel series, with Linux 6.1.20 as the default version.

The sources for this article include a story from 9to5Linux.
/usr/bin/curl