

Our KernelCare webinars on live patching technology and applications are growing in popularity.
So, we’re happy to tell you about another. As before, this one is in partnership with a technical architect from Amazon Web Services. And we’ve invited a prominent and established KernelCare customer from the insurance sector, Efinity.

Few applications require a system reboot to update them. The Linux kernel is different. You can’t update it without stopping and restarting the server on which it’s running. Reboots are disruptive—unless you use LIVE PATCHING.
Our webinar will explain what live patching is, and why you need it if you’re using Linux on AWS EC2.
WEBINAR: “You Need Live Patching to Achieve SOC 2 Compliance”
DATE & TIME: Hosted on Wednesday, July 10, 2019. 10:00 (PDT) / 13:00 (EDT)

The hosts:

Igor Seletskiy, CEO, CloudLinux
Jamie Charleston, Senior Sales Engineer, KernelCare
Claudine Morales, AWS Partner Solutions Architect, Amazon Web Services
Andrzej Talarek, Compliance and AWS infrastructure professional at Efinity Sp. z. o. o.
The topics:

What Linux kernel live patching is, and how it works.
Why unpatched kernels are unsafe.
Where AWS applications and infrastructures see the benefits.
How KernelCare helps enterprises become data-security compliant with SOC 2 ®.
The session lasted about 40 minutes, including a 20 minute open Q&A with Claudine, Igor, and Jamie.
Why you should attend
Enterprises move to cloud platforms like AWS to improve agility, security, stability and profitability. Even with the vast sums spent on cybersecurity, still, enterprises get hacked, suffering data breaches and server compromises. Many of these attacks take advantage of un-patched and insecure kernels, a consequence of system administrators’ reluctance to incur downtime, necessary because a reboot is the only way to update a Linux kernel.
We hold our webinars to crush this myth and spread the message of live patching to AWS customers running Linux, to help them stay safe without service interruption. We want you to understand why KernelCare should be a part of any AWS deployment strategy that wants to strengthen its data governance posture and compliance.

Watch the webinar recording:


Watch more webinars from KernelCare team:

Linux kernel live patching in VMware Cloud on AWS
Live patching Linux kernel vulnerabilities in scalable hosting environments
The Importance of Live Patching for Kernel Vulnerabilities
