

Organizations use cloud services like AWS to be more agile and more profitable. This doesn’t stop them spending millions of dollars on cybersecurity, investing in network defense and end-point protection, hiring consultants, and purchasing threat intelligence reports.
But companies still get hacked, and still suffer data breaches and server compromises, often traceable to out-of-date software, either at the application level, or in the OS itself.

Few applications require a system reboot to update them. The Linux kernel is different. You can’t update it without stopping and restarting the server on which it’s running. Reboots are disruptive—unless you use LIVE PATCHING.
Our upcoming webinar will explain what live patching is, and why you need it if you’re using Linux on AWS EC2.
WEBINAR: “The Importance of Live Patching for Kernel Vulnerabilities”
DATE & TIME: Hosted on Thursday, May 9, 2019. 10:00 (PDT) / 13:00 (EDT)
Your hosts are:

Igor Seletskiy, CEO, CloudLinux
Jamie Charleston, Senior Sales Engineer, KernelCare
Claudine Morales, AWS Partner Solutions Architect, Amazon Web Services
Tariq Hasan, UNIX/Linux System Administrator, Affinity Water Ltd (UK)
Together, they’ll explain how live patching for Linux kernels works, how AWS applications and infrastructure benefit from it, and why live patching is a crucial component for systems that simply cannot go offline.
The session will last about an hour, including a 20 minute open Q&A with Claudine, Igor, and Jamie.
Watch the webinar recording:

More webinars from KernelCare team:

You need live patching to achieve SOC 2 Compliance
Live patching Linux kernel vulnerabilities in scalable hosting environments
Linux kernel live patching in VMware Cloud on AWS
KernelCare is a live patching system that patches Linux kernel vulnerabilities automatically, with no reboots. It’s used on over 300,000 servers, and has been used to patch servers running for 6+ years. It works with all major Linux distributions, such as RHEL, CentOS, Amazon Linux, and Ubuntu. It also interoperates with common vulnerability scanners such as Nessus, Tenable, Rapid7, and Qualys. To talk with a consultant about how KernelCare might meet your enterprise’s specific needs, contact us directly at sales@kernelcare.com.