
Operating a business primarily in the cloud is no longer a foreign concept for many businesses, and has become more of the norm. Cloud computing opens up a variety of doors for organizations, helping them quickly expand their operations while supporting more customers and offering unparalleled flexibility with branded applications and services.
However, when it comes to data security in the cloud, there are often misconceptions about whose responsibility it is to ensure – the organization’s or the CSP’s (Cloud Service Provider).
In this case, businesses should understand the shared responsibility model and how it should impact their efforts to align cloud security priorities.

Breaking Down the Shared Responsibility Model

A shared responsibility model – specifically when referring to interconnected cloud operations – helps to divide important security-related tasks between businesses and the vendors they work with.
The important thing to keep in mind about shared responsibility models is that they aren’t a hard line drawn in the sand regarding who’s responsible for what. Instead, it’s a spectrum that can be referred to help ensure that both parties in a relationship that involves the use of sensitive customer data work together in varying ways to align cloud security and ensure the data’s integrity when being collected, stored, and transmitted in both on-premise and cloud-based environments.

What Are the Cloud Provider’s Obligations?

Cloud providers typically have access to all types of business data when contracted through subscription services. In order to facilitate this relationship, CSPs have a variety of responsibilities they need to uphold on behalf of their partners to align cloud security:

Protecting Underlying Infrastructure

When data is stored across different data centers, CSPs have an obligation to make sure both the physical and digital security of those centers are secure. This includes taking adequate measures to secure on-premise server rooms and storage systems as well as incorporate other needed protections like surveillance cameras and environmental controls.
All underlying infrastructure supported by firewalls or intrusion detection systems are also necessary provisions that CSP must make when minimizing the likelihood of cyber attacks.

Implementing Various Network Protections

Most CSPs will take a multi-layered approach to their network protection strategies. Depending on the capabilities of the provider, many will have various systems in place to monitor incoming and outgoing network traffic as well as segment their networks to better defend against large-scale data breaches.
Part of this protection also includes implementing policies regarding data backups and disaster recovery efforts to ensure they can quickly contain any successful cyber attacks and minimize downtime and sensitive data leakage.

Keeping Virtualization Layers Secure

Creating virtualized computing environments is another common service provided by CSPs. However, providers are responsible for ensuring that the software used to manage the virtual provisioning of computing resources is hardened with the latest security patches.
CSPs may also need to implement virtual LAN environments (VLANs) and specific security groups that minimize the chance that virtual machines can access information from other clients supported on the same server.

What Are an Organization’s Obligations When Ensuring Cloud Security?

As a cloud customer, you have a certain level of control over the amount of security obligations you’ll be directly accountable for, which will be dependent on the type of cloud service model you’re using. To align cloud security, consider the following:


IaaS (Infrastructure-as-a-Service): The Infrastructure-as-a-Service models give the organization more control over various operational elements, but they also mean greater responsibility. Businesses will be directly in control of the various operating systems, applications, and data networks while the CPS provides the storage, network, servers, and virtualization.
PaaS (Platform-as-a-Service): In Platform-as-a-Service models, CSPs free up organizations from needing to manage and patch vulnerabilities in their operation systems as well as any underlying infrastructure required. However, organizations will still need to make sure that their access controls are properly configured in addition to securing certain applications.
SaaS (Software-as-a-Service): Software-as-a-Service models put the most amount of responsibility in the hands of CSPs, since they will be directly managing all necessary components to provision a specific business service. However, there may still be various security protocols that an organization will need to configure and manage as part of its shared responsibility, including implementing certain role-based access permissions.

Standard Obligations that Should Be Met

Regardless of the cloud deployment model you choose for your business, there are still fundamental responsibilities that every organization should be taking to further align cloud security and reduce the risks associated with operating in the cloud:

Organizations should prioritize their responsibility to keep all forms of company data secure. This can include categorizing data based on its level of confidentiality and implementing supplemental safeguards to ensure it can only be viewed by the right individuals.
Incorporating encryption methods wherever possible on sensitive documentation is one important strategy for safeguarding company data, whether it’s at rest or in transit. This level of protection is critical when meeting strict compliance standards like those used in HITRUST certification protocols and other industry-specific security frameworks. 



Establishing data backup and disaster recovery procedures can also be an effective way to harden business security protocols. These initiatives can also be supported by working with penetration testing services that can help organizations identify vulnerabilities in their networks and business systems while giving them important perspectives on where they should prioritize their security efforts.

Implementing Access Controls

Implementing IAM (Identity and Access Management) controls is another way organizations can further strengthen their security protocols, whether opening primarily on-premise or in the cloud.
IAM solutions make sure that individuals are given only the minimum level of access needed to perform their duties. They also help to provide a unified view across the organization over who has certain access privileges and the type of activities they’re performing on connected systems and networks.

Software applications are often a prime target for attackers. Therefore, organizations are encouraged to maintain detailed records of the various software solutions they subscribe to in all departments.
For organizations that maintain a large volume of applications, vulnerability scanning tools can be a valuable way to proactively identify any underlying weakness across an entire stack of business tools and solutions. This helps to reduce the time spent manually
identifying vulnerabilities and allows organizations to prioritize their patching efforts.

Embrace Your Security Responsibilities

Both CSPs and their clients have a serious role to play when it comes to ensuring that customer data is secure. By taking the time to understand the nuances of shared responsibility, collaborating effectively with various vendors, and putting into place important security safeguards, you can ensure you’re able to align cloud security efforts, scale your business, and minimize the likelihood of security breaches and compliance issues.

Author Bio Information
Author Bio:
Nazy Fouladirad is President and COO of Tevora, a global leading cybersecurity consultancy. She has dedicated her career to creating a more secure business and online environment for organizations across the country and world. She is passionate about serving her community and acts as a board member for a local nonprofit organization.

Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/nazy-fouladirad-67a66821
