

Automated tools simplify the Linux kernel patching process.


Most distributions provide patches through system updates.


Live patching eliminates the need to reboot the system.

Debunking Myths about Linux Kernel Patching

The kernel is the heart of the Linux operating system that powers a majority of computing devices around the globe. As the kernel evolves to meet the demands of modern computing, patching becomes essential to keep it secure. However, there are some myths and misconceptions about Linux kernel patching that often discourage users from carrying out this crucial task.
In this blog post, we’ll debunk some of the most common myths to shed light on the importance of kernel patching.

Myths about Linux Kernel Patching

Myth 1: Kernel Patching is Only for Experts

One of the popular myths about Linux kernel patching is that it is only for advanced users and system administrators. However, patching processes are well-documented and easily understood by users with different skill levels. Additionally, many Linux distributions have included the patching process in the system update mechanism, making it as simple as updating any other software.
In fact, automated tools like KernelCare Enterprise make the patching process even easier. KernelCare automatically applies security patches to the Linux kernel as soon as they are released.

Myth 2: Kernel Patching Leads to Unstable Systems

Another common misconception is that updating the Linux kernel can make the system unstable. In reality, most kernel patches are thoroughly tested before being released and the patches are essential to improve system stability and security. Additionally, users have the option to deploy patches that address particular vulnerabilities or bugs, reducing the risk of instability.

Myth 3: Kernel Patching is Time Consuming

Some users avoid kernel patching because they believe it takes a long time to complete the whole process. This is where KernelCare Enterprise comes in handy. KernelCare simplifies vulnerability management, reducing the burden on IT security teams by automating patch deployment and eliminating the need for team members to babysit a system reboot.
Furthermore, if we look at the bigger picture, the time invested in patching is outweighed by the results (i.e. improved security, performance, and compatibility). Updating the Linux kernel on a regular basis keeps the system safe from new threats and ensures maximum performance.

Myth 4: Patching Requires a System Reboot

Another myth surrounding Linux kernel patching is that it requires a system reboot. But that is not the case with modern live patching technology which allows users to apply updates to the running kernel without any reboot, ensuring continuous operation and reducing downtime.
KernelCare Enterprise is a live patching solution for all popular enterprise Linux distros, including Ubuntu, Debian, RHEL, CentOS, AlmaLinux, Oracle Linux, and many more.

Final Thoughts

By clearing up these misconceptions, we believe, users can confidently engage in patching practices for the overall health of their Linux ecosystems. Patch management also ensures that the systems align with IT risk frameworks, avoiding non-compliance issues.
With TuxCare’s automated and rebootless Linux kernel patching tool,  users can take an active role in maintaining the security and compliance of their systems.
Speak to one of our Linux security experts to get started with KernelCare Enterprise according to your organization’s requirements. Also, explore patch management best practices for effective vulnerability management.