
It’s never been more important for businesses to invest in the best security measures available to them. Hackers and cybercriminals are constantly attempting to attack organizations and access their data. What’s more, cyber attacks are becoming increasingly sophisticated and new threats are constantly emerging.
So, it’s vital that businesses stay up-to-date with security measures to protect any information they hold and, ultimately, safeguard the privacy of their end user.
If your company is looking for new ways to add an extra layer of security, you should consider an intrusion detection system. These can monitor incoming and outgoing activity from the business, protecting your company and users.

What is an intrusion detection system?

Also known as IDS, an intrusion detection system is a security tool used by organizations to prevent unwanted access to business networks. Essentially, security teams use it to monitor traffic into and out of the business and scan for suspicious behavior.
The system protects against criminals trying to break into the organization’s network to steal data, issuing advanced warnings if it detects an attack.
An IDS system’s alerts are typically highly accurate, especially as the technology used to create them is increasingly tested and refined.

How does an intrusion detection system work?

It’s great to understand how security systems work in theory. But how does an intrusion detection system function in practice?

Profiling

Intrusion detection systems typically include two types of profiling: user and resource.
User profiling involves creating descriptions of individual users in a system or network based on different behaviors and activity patterns relevant to their job roles. You use these descriptions to categorize users into groups based on what permissions they should have to which platforms.
This method allows your company or IT team to restrict access where necessary to minimize the risk of data breaches. It also means the system has a baseline of normal behavior for each user, which then helps detect anomalies.
Resource profiling follows the same method, creating profiles for the company’s resources within your network or system. ‘Resources’, in this sense, can refer to applications, databases, network devices, and files.
Part of the profiling process involves detailing each resource’s usage patterns and access controls.
This type of profiling allows the business to identify vulnerabilities that hackers might exploit. In turn, that helps to identify which security measures should be prioritized and improve the overall incident response plan.

Threshold monitoring

Threshold monitoring is where the system sets an accepted level of user behavior. If user behavior becomes suspicious to the point where it begins to exceed the threshold, pre-determined measures will alert the business to a potential threat.
Such measures could include login attempts from a different location, failed password entry, or suspicious downloads from one source.
Once the system has detected threats, it alerts and triggers an auto response. It could be something as simple as asking a user to re-enter a password or putting an account on hold until the business contacts the user to confirm their authorization details.
The threshold value can change depending on the company and what is most important to them. Sometimes there is a “false positive” alert, which is when the system creates an alert for harmless activity because of the low threshold level.

Core benefits of an IDS

Any security system is going to help protect your business and its data. But let’s explore the most useful benefits of an IDS.

Preventing attacks

An intrusion detection system aims to identify potential attacks before they can cause any lasting damage. It can block traffic and users from specific IP addresses and alert the organization to look into suspicious activity from these areas. This can stop potentially harmful attacks in their tracks.

Prompting changes

Security measures can always be adapted and implemented in response to new threats. The reason an IDS is useful is because it can help to identify those weaker areas. It also lets you take control over the threshold so you can specify how low or high you want the security to be. Your business can adapt this as and when they see fit, depending on user activity.

Removing suspicious content

IDS can modify content before it reaches the user to prevent attacks. If the system detects
an email with potentially malicious content, it will inform the user before allowing them to view the full email message.

Free to use image sourced from Unsplash

Users have the chance to govern what they download, so it acts as a buffer before they “trust” the email source. This can be a particularly useful tool for a service level contact center, when businesses are continuously receiving incoming emails from external customers.

Understanding the different types of intrusion detection systems

Before you install any security system, it’s imperative to understand what different options are out there and which is most suitable to your business security requirements.

Behavior analysis

An network behavior analysis system, or NBA, monitors all online activity coming into the organization and analyzes any deviations that arise. This means threats are immediately identified thanks to changes in behavior and can be dealt with swiftly.
NBA systems are placed internally in business networks. From here, security teams use them to keep an eye on changing traffic patterns, monitoring what flows between internal and external networks.

Network-based intrusion prevention system

A network-based intrusion prevention system (NIPS) monitors entire networks for potentially harmful traffic. This is typically done by analyzing protocol activity. If any activity goes against the database on file, it flags this in the system. These are usually deployed behind firewalls, remote access servers, and routers.

Wireless system

A wireless intrusion prevention system monitors wireless networks. Under the company’s protocols, the system can analyze networks within a range of the organization’s wireless network. This is used to scan for any malicious attacks, even if the attacks are a distant external wireless threat.

Host-based intrusion prevention system

A host-based IDS varies from the other types of IDS because it’s deployed in a single host. These are used to monitor incoming and outflowing traffic from the host. It monitors system logs, network activity, and any changes in processes.

How an IDS ensures end-user security

The ultimate goal of using an IDS is to enhance end-user security. Let’s explore how it does that.

Monitors systems in real time

An intrusion detection system is used to consistently monitor incoming activity in real time. It does this by scanning the operation of routers, incoming traffic, firewalls, and key management servers. The system’s main role is to identify abnormal behavior patterns and activities and and requests for unauthorized access requests, flagging any issues that may breach the established threshold.
By monitoring sudden spikes in network traffic in real-time and immediately flagging anomalies, the system picks out potential security threats to avert a serious attack that would put user data at risk.

Analyzes different types of attacks

IDS is able to provide valuable data for post-incident analysis and forensic investigations by analyzing the different types of attacks, whether it’s malware, viruses, or denial-of-service attacks.
The system also logs all of these anomalies and alerts. So if an attack breaches security measures in the future, you can use reporting features to reflect on events leading up to the attack and analyze what went wrong.
Your team can also review IDS logs to understand the scope and impact of the incident. This can help to identify the root cause of the breach and ensure the business takes the right steps to stop this happening again.

Free to use image sourced from Unsplash

Helps ensure compliance

Businesses can feel assured that the IDS is helping to maintain regulatory compliance. This also benefits end-users as they know the systems being used to protect them meet the high standards of the industry, and they themselves are not posing a threat to their safety.
An IDS gives organizations visibility across their networks, which can provide a clear overview of how they can meet security regulations. It also means businesses are equipped with documentation to show they are meeting compliance requirements.

Improves security resources

There are many layers to a business’ security. Using an IDS adds yet another layer of vital protection to the end-user by improving security responses.
IDS sensors inspect data within network packets, stopping malware or other threats making their way into the organization. This can be across all levels, too, whether it’s external emails or incoming calls via the company’s CCaaS solutions.

Utilizing intrusion detection systems

An intrusion detection system is an invaluable security tool for many modern businesses.
Adding this tool to your arsenal will help protect end-users as they go about their daily routine, no matter which platforms, networks, applications, or devices they’re using.
Utilizing IDS software gives you real-time insights into threats so you can take immediate action. This means your business can stay on top of security measures and enhance end-user security across the company.