

The 2018 Best of Interop ITX awards finalists were just revealed, and we are thrilled to share that KernelCare has been selected as the finalist in the Infrastructure category. Traditional IT infrastructure is changing giving way to new software-defined technologies, cloud, and automation. In this category, Interop ITX 2018 recognizes products that help enterprises adapt to the new era of infrastructure.
The awards honor IT products that are “making significant technological advancements in some of the most important facets of the IT industry”. The independent team of judges — which include IT experts, analysts, and editors — reviews and considers those products that are the most innovative for addressing real-world customer challenges.
KernelCare is one of those products. It offers automated Linux kernel security updates without the need to reboot servers. Though it is extremely simple and quick to install, requires no ongoing maintenance, and is affordable, it changes the way companies maintain their Linux kernel security. KernelCare addresses the need of enterprises to simplify overall server management, eradicate downtime due to kernel patching, and ensures that they never have vulnerable kernels within their infrastructure.
If you are attending Interop ITX 2018 in Las Vegas next week, stop by our booth #1019 – meet with our team, get a demo, and see exactly why judges thought KernelCare delivers technical impact and innovation.
Related post: The winner of our Interop raffle has been announced!
KernelCare is a live patching system that patches Linux kernel vulnerabilities automatically, with no reboots. It’s used on over 300,000 servers, and has been used to patch servers running for 6+ years. It works with all major Linux distributions, such as RHEL, CentOS, Amazon Linux, and Ubuntu. It also interoperates with common vulnerability scanners such as Nessus, Tenable, Rapid7, and Qualys. To talk with a consultant about how KernelCare might meet your enterprise’s specific needs, contact us directly at sales@kernelcare.com.