
In light of recent cybercrime events, the Singapore Police Force (SPF) has arrested six threat actors. These Singapore cybercrime arrests came as a result of multiple raids at varying locations conducted by 160 law enforcement officials. In this article, we’ll dive into the details of these arrests and uncover who the threat actors were and the items that were seized. Let’s begin!
Singapore Cybercrime Arrests Uncovered
As per recent reports, these Singapore cybercrime arrests pertain to six individuals. Five out of the six are Chinese nationals, whereas one individual is Singaporean. Singapore police force cyber raids against these hackers were conducted at several locations on September 9th, 2024.
The six men that were arrested by the SPF as a result of these raids are said to be aged between 32 to 42. In addition, it’s suspected that they are linked to a global cybercrime syncindate involved in malicious online activities. These Singapore cybercrime arrests have also led to cash and electronic devices being seized.
Devices Seized By The SPF
Among the six individuals part of the Singapore cybercrime arrests was a 42-year-old Chinese national from Bidadari Park Drive. This individual was in possession of a laptop that contained credentials of web servers used by other hackers. The details of those hackers, as of now, have not been disclosed. Other items in possession of this individual include:

Five laptops.
Six mobile phones.
More than S$24,000.
Cryptocurrency equivalent to around $850,000.
Three other individuals who were arrested from Mount Sinai Avenue were said to be in possession of seven laptops that had information about:

Hacking tools.
Software for controlling malware.
Foreign internet service providers.
Remote access trojan widely used by Chinese state-sponsored groups.
Apart from this, eleven mobile phones and cash over S$54,600 were also seized from these individuals. The fifth hacker arrested as a part of the Singapore cybercrime arrest was a 38-year-old Chinese national.
This individual was arrested from Cairnhill Road over suspicions of illegally purchasing personally identifiable information. The sixth individual who was arrested is a 34-year-old Singaporean national. This threat actor was arrested from Hougang Avenue and is likely involved in providing assistance to the others.
Charges Against The Arrested Hackers
Threat actors booked due to the Singapore cybercrime arrests face charges under the Computer Misuse Act 1993. These charges levied against these individuals pertain to:

Unauthorized access to computer material.
Retention of personal information without authorization.
Retention software capable of being used to commit malicious attacks.
The Singaporean national has also been charged for assisting others and providing aid used for securing unauthorized access to websites. It’s worth mentioning that this is an offense punishable by an S$5,000 fine, jail time of up to two years, or both for first-time offenders.
Commenting on the Singapore cybercrime arrests, the SPF has stated that:
“This is a significant operation as the individuals are suspected to be carrying out global malicious cyber operations from Singapore. We have zero tolerance of the use of Singapore to conduct criminal activities, including illegal cyber activities. We will deal severely with perpetrators.”
Conclusion
These Singapore cybercrime arrests highlight the nation’s firm stance against cybercriminals. With the SPF’s swift action and seizure of crucial evidence, the arrested individuals will face serious consequences. Singapore remains vigilant in combating global cyber threats, ensuring justice, maintaining cybersecurity integrity, and ensuring online protection.
The sources for this piece include articles in The Hacker News and Bleeping Computer.