
Cisco has released security updates to address two vulnerabilities that are classified as “high”: CVE-2022-20961 and CVE-2022-20956.
The vulnerabilities affect the Cisco Identity Services Engine and could allow an attacker to conduct multiple malicious activities.
CVE-2022-20961 has a severity score of 8.8 and was caused by inadequate CSRF protection for the web-based management interface of an affected device.
A vulnerability in the web-based management interface of Cisco Identity Services Engine ISF could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to conduct a Cross-Site Request Forgery CSRF attack and perform arbitrary actions on an affected device.
A remote attacker can send a malformed HTTP request to perform arbitrary actions on the affected device by using the privileges of the target user after convincing him to visit a malicious website.
The vulnerability could allow an attacker to conduct cross-site scripting attacks, poisoning the webcache, and other malicious activities. The vulnerability affects the Identity Services Engine version prior to 3.2. However, Cisco stated that there is no evidence that the vulnerability has been exploited for malicious activities.
The second bug fixed, CVE-2022-20956, has a severity of 7.1 and is caused by improper access control in the web-based management interface.
The vulnerability is found in the web-based management interface of Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE).
By sending a specifically crafted HTTP request, a threat actor could exploit the vulnerability to bypass authorization and access system files. The bug affects the Identity Services Engine version 3.1 and 3.2. Cisco confirmed that a proof-of-concept exploit code exists for the vulnerability.
Although there are no workarounds to the two vulnerabilities, the security updates released by Cisco ultimately fix the vulnerabilities. Users are recommended to download the latest updates to resolve the vulnerabilities.
The sources for this piece include an article SecurityOnline.
Check out this news in our Tuxcare Vblog