
Arch Linux is based on a rolling-release model. It includes numerous advanced features that cater to the needs of GNU/Linux users, such as the systemd init system, modern file systems, LVM2 (Logical Volume Manager), software RAID (Redundant Array of Independent Disks), udev support, and initcpio (with mkinitcpio).
Additionally, it ensures that users have access to the latest available kernels, allowing them to leverage the latest developments in the Linux kernel ecosystem.
Mentioning that the new ISO snapshot of Arch Linux, 2023.06.01, which includes the latest Linux kernel 6.3, is now available to download. This marks the June 2023 snapshot and also their first release to include the Linux kernel 6.3.
Since Linux kernel 6.2 has already reached its end of life, it is obvious that Arch Linux will implement the latest kernel available right now.
Although the stable repositories of Arch Linux received the Linux kernel 6.3 a few weeks after its initial launch, it could not make it in the previous month’s ISO snapshot. However, the 2023.06.01 image now comes with the default Linux kernel 6.3.5, which shipped in the repositories on May 30th.
In addition, this new release also includes the archinstall 2.5.6 text-mode installer. This minor update to the default installer enhances the 3 desktop profiles and resolves dual entries in /boot/loader/entries/entry.conf for systemd-boot.

Where to Download
If you wish to perform a new installation, you can obtain the ISO snapshot from the official website. However, you won’t need to download it to upgrade your system if you already run Arch Linux.
Run the command shown below in the terminal to upgrade the system.
$ sudo pacman -Syu
Pacman is a lightweight command-line tool for managing packages. Since Arch Linux is based on a rolling-release model, it allows a one-time installation with continuous upgrades.

The sources for this article include a story from 9to5Linux.
/boot/loader/entries/entry.conf for systemd-boot
$ sudo pacman -Syu