
On February 10th, 2024, the Debian Project unveiled Debian 12.5, the fourth ISO update to the ongoing Debian GNU/Linux 12 “Bookworm” series. This release, which came 2 months after Debian 12.4, is powered by the latest kernel from the Linux 6.1 LTS series and contains 42 security updates and 68 bug fixes.
The security updates include the fixes for popular packages including glibc, openssh, chromium, openjdk-17, curl, putty, and the Linux kernel packages. The security advisory has been released for each of these updates before. You can find the list of security updates and bug fixes on the release announcement page.

Download Debian 12.5

For those ready to dive in, Debian 12.5 installation images cater to a wide array of hardware architectures, including 64-bit (amd64), 32-bit (i386), and more, ensuring compatibility across diverse systems. You can download them from this link.
Additionally, live images tailored with popular desktop environments like KDE Plasma 5.27.5 LTS, GNOME 43.9, and others are up for grabs, offering users a seamless out-of-the-box experience. The download link is available here.
Furthermore, Debian provides a NetInstall image for network-based installations and a Standard image sans graphical environment, facilitating customized setups for users seeking tailored configurations.
Existing Debian 12 users can simply run the upgrade command to get the latest version of Debian 12.
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade

Conclusion
The Debian Project also mentioned that Debian 12.5 does not include a new version of Debian 12, but only updates some of the packages. The ISO update is especially helpful for new users who want to install Debian 12 OS with the latest version of packages. So, users do not have to update lots of packages after installing Debian 12.
TuxCare’s KernelCare Enterprise enables organizations to live patch many enterprise Linux distributions, including Debian, Ubuntu, RHEL, CentOS, Rocky Linux, AlmaLinux, Oracle Linux, and more. KernelCare automatically deploys all security patches without having to restart the systems, eliminating the patching-related downtime and minimizing vulnerability exposure windows.
Learn how KernelCare Enterprise delivers vulnerability patches without a reboot.

The sources for this article include a story from 9to5Linux.
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade