
Patch management is an essential practice for maintaining software security and performance, addressing vulnerabilities through software updates. Risk-based patch management (RBPM) prioritizes these updates based on the severity of threats.
Let’s take a look at the significance, benefits, and best practices for implementing RBPM in today’s cybersecurity landscape.

What is Patch Management?

Patch management is the process of implementing code changes in software through the use of software patches. Developers can issue patches for a variety of reasons, including fixing bugs that create security vulnerabilities or adding new features.
Patches can also be used to address security vulnerabilities that have been found in a piece of software. It’s important that major security flaws are patched quickly once they’re detected, which is where risk-based patch management comes in.

What is Risk-Based Patch Management?

Risk-based patch management (RBPM) is one possible approach developers can adopt when performing software updates. It involves implementing patches to fix software code based on the severity of security issues.
Security issues posing the highest risk to the organization are prioritized and carried out first, while issues that pose a lower risk are handled later on.
Much like caller ID helps your employees prioritize incoming calls from customers based on identity and context, RBPM uses contextual information to prioritize security vulnerabilities, so you know which critical issues need addressing first and which less urgent ones can be temporarily delayed.
RBPM is considered a more sophisticated approach to patch management than many other methods. RBPM is an extension of risk-based vulnerability management (RBVM), and can form a vital part of an organization’s RBVM strategy.

Why is Risk-Based Patch Management so Important?

Software vulnerabilities can provide malicious actors with access points to software, allowing them to interrupt services and giving them access to sensitive information and customer data. Patching these vulnerabilities is therefore an essential part of any cybersecurity strategy.


Image sourced from skyboxsecurity.com

In 2023, over 30,000 new Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs) were identified worldwide. This represented an increase from the 26,000 detected in 2022, highlighting the continually increasing number of vulnerabilities that software developers need to deal with.
In fact, it’s estimated that there are cumulatively over 230,000 CVEs worldwide as of 2023.
When one of these vulnerabilities is identified, developers will often try to correct it by patching their code.
Before the patch can be implemented, organizations running the software must obtain it from the software vendor, and then test it within their IT infrastructure. The process can be sped up with automation, but it can still be a lengthy process. Not only that, but the process is ongoing; once one vulnerability has been patched, chances are another one will be detected that requires attention.
Because patch management is such a time-consuming and intensive task, many organizations may lack the resources to implement all the available patches for known vulnerabilities in their IT environments. This is why prioritizing patches by risk severity is so important.
Not every patch provides equal value, because vulnerabilities don’t present equal risk. Patches that address minor vulnerabilities that pose no real danger won’t provide the same value as more vital patches that are more likely to be exploited.
Risk-based patch management is built around the knowledge that many organizations are incapable of implementing every available patch, and so focuses on implementing the patches that will return the best results, and highest value, first.

What are the Benefits of Adopting Risk-Based Patch Management?

Risk-based patch management can provide a variety of benefits for the organizations practicing it.

Enhanced Security

Focusing on the most critical vulnerabilities allows organizations to better protect themselves against potential exploits and cyberattacks, mitigating the most potentially harmful risks. With the cost of cybercrime expected to skyrocket in the coming years, this has never been more vital.


Image sourced from statista.com

Resource Efficiency

RBPM allows IT resources to be used more efficiently, prioritizing patches to tackle vulnerabilities that pose the highest risk, ensuring that efforts are concentrated where they matter most.
Because IT teams can focus on high-value patches, resources aren’t wasted testing and implementing patches that do little to improve the organization’s overall security position.

Compliance and Governance

Many industries have regulatory requirements regarding security updates. Organizations can use RBPM to ensure compliance by prioritizing patches that address vulnerabilities that could lead to non-compliance.
This means that organizations can avoid the hefty fine and reputational damage that can occur as a result of compliance breaches.

Reduced Downtime

Patches don’t always need to be deployed immediately. RBPM allows organizations to strategically schedule updates, implementing them at times when they’ll cause the least possible disruption to users, and allowing downtime to be minimized. Or they can opt for a non-disruptive patch deployment mechanism, like Live Patching.

Informed Decision-Making

RBPM provides a structured framework for evaluating vulnerabilities and their potential impacts. This allows decision makers to make informed choices about risk management, providing them with the information required to make the best choices.
Just as a virtual call center solution can assist with data-driven decision making in a call center environment through CSAT scores and other metrics, risk-based patch management software can help decision makers to make fast, well-informed decisions regarding which vulnerabilities need the most attention.

Adaptability

Risk-based patch management is a flexible and adaptive approach to performing updates. It allows organizations to react to a constantly evolving threat landscape.
Businesses can adapt their strategies based on the current risk environment, meaning that different types of threats can be prioritized based on the current cybersecurity landscape, or even in response to different stages in a product’s life cycle.


Image sourced from waverleysoftware.com
How Does Risk-Based Patch Management Work?

Patch management can vary from organization to organization. The steps involved are often shaped by each organization’s unique IT stack, the nature of its products, and the needs of its customers.
However, there are several broad steps that will be present in most RBPM initiatives:


Firstly, an inventory of the operating systems, applications, and firmware running in the organization should be compiled. This will give teams full visibility into the tech stack, and allow them to identify vulnerabilities, wherever they may emerge. (This inventory should be regularly updated to ensure it remains relevant).


Any existing patches that have been issued for the software listed in the inventory should be noted.


Available patches that have not yet been installed should then be acquired.


Once the patches are acquired, the severity of the issue that each available patch is intended to address should be assessed. This means determining the potential risk to the organization of each potential issue.


From there, patch deployment can be prioritized. The following steps can then be carried out starting with the patches that address issues presenting the highest risk to the organization.


The patches then need to be tested, beginning with the most critical patches.
Once the patches have been tested and are verified as safe to use, they can be implemented.
From there, it should be checked that the patches have been correctly implemented.
Finally, all implemented patches should be clearly documented.

How to Switch to a Risk-Based Patch Management Program

The biggest difference between a conventional patch management system and a risk-based patch management system is that the latter involves scoring the risks associated with each patch and security vulnerability.
Therefore, switching to a risk-based patch management program requires an organization to adopt risk-scoring processes.
To achieve this, scoring systems such as the Common Vulnerability Scoring System can be used. These are scales used by software makers to rate the potential impacts of security vulnerabilities. These scoring systems take into account factors such as how difficult a vulnerability is to exploit, and whether it is currently being actively exploited by hackers.


Image sourced from appknox.com

To evaluate the importance of each patch to your organization’s business operations and IT environment you must determine the risk that each vulnerability presents to your operations. To do this, you need to understand the criticality of the asset that has the vulnerability.
In simple terms, this means that core systems that are essential for day-to-day operations, or those that hold sensitive data, are most vital, and so patches affecting vulnerabilities in these systems should be prioritized.

Best Practices for Implementing Risk-Based Patch Management

There are several best practices that organizations wishing to implement RBPM should follow, in order to ensure the program is implemented efficiently and runs smoothly.

Clear Inventory

Creating and maintaining a clear, accurate inventory of software assets is essential. This provides relevant stakeholders with instant access to information so they can easily and correctly spot the vulnerabilities that affect the company’s IT environment the most.

Cooperation and Collaboration

IT and security teams should work closely together, ensuring that all stakeholders understand the risks and vulnerabilities present, and establish clear, efficient processes for prioritizing patching based on the severity of those risks. Establishing cross-functional teams is ideal.


Image sourced from treinetic.com

Consistent Documentation

All inventories and documentation should be consistently updated to reflect applied patches, ensuring that all records are up to date and better informing future decision making.

Choose the Right Software

A variety of different patch management software platforms are available, so it’s important that organizations choose one that supports RBPM. Automation features are also worth keeping an eye out for, as they can help organizations to streamline the patching process.

Manage security debts

While RBPM helps you to prioritize high-value vulnerabilities, be aware that it can inadvertently lead to the accumulation of security debt. Low-risk patches that are repeatedly delayed in favor of addressing critical threats pile up over time.
When combined with other low-priority threats and overlooked weaknesses, they’ll become a much larger risk than they first appeared.
For this reason, it’s important to balance your patching strategy by periodically addressing lower-risk vulnerabilities to avoid them turning into significant risks.

Use RBPM for Efficient, Effective Protection

Risk-based patch management (RBPM) is a vital approach for all organizations as they navigate the complexities of software vulnerabilities. By prioritizing patches based on their risk severity, businesses can enhance security, optimize resource allocation, and adapt to an ever-evolving threat landscape.
As the number of identified vulnerabilities has increased, adopting RBPM has allowed organizations to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements, while also improving incident response times and minimizing downtime.
Implementing best practices, such as maintaining accurate inventories and fostering cooperation between IT and security teams, can further enhance the effectiveness of RBPM. Ultimately, this leads to a strategic approach that empowers organizations to safeguard their systems while efficiently managing patch deployment.
