
Multiple vulnerabilities in Python have been identified and patched, with updates available for several Ubuntu releases, including Ubuntu 24.04 LTS, Ubuntu 22.04 LTS, and Ubuntu 20.04 LTS. These vulnerabilities pose serious security risks, such as denial of service (DoS) and the ability to bypass protection mechanisms.
In this article, we will explore the latest Python vulnerabilities, how they impact systems, and what steps you can take to secure your environment.

Python Vulnerabilities Details

CVE-2023-27043
In Python versions up to 3.11.3, the email module incorrectly parses email addresses containing special characters. This leads to the wrong part of an RFC2822 header being identified as the addr-spec value. As a result, attackers could potentially bypass security mechanisms in applications that grant access based on email verification to a specific domain (e.g., only allowing addresses from @company.example.com for signup). This vulnerability originates from the email/_parseaddr.py file in recent Python versions.

CVE-2024-6232
A MEDIUM severity vulnerability has been identified in CPython, where regular expressions used in tarfile.TarFile header parsing allow excessive backtracking. This makes the module vulnerable to Regular Expression Denial of Service (ReDoS) attacks through specially crafted tar archives.

CVE-2024-6923
A MEDIUM-severity vulnerability has been identified in CPython’s email module. When serializing an email message, the module failed to properly quote newlines in email headers, potentially enabling header injection attacks. A header injection is a technique that allows the modification or insertion of unauthorized email header fields, potentially resulting in malicious activities such as spoofing or phishing.

CVE-2024-7592
Another vulnerability exists in CPython’s http.cookies standard library module. When parsing cookies with backslashes in quoted values, the parser could experience quadratic complexity, leading to excessive CPU usage and potential denial-of-service (DoS) attacks.

CVE-2024-8088
This vulnerability was discovered in the CPython zipfile module’s zipfile.Path class. While the more commonly used zipfile.ZipFile class is unaffected, iterating over entry names in a maliciously crafted zip archive (using methods like namelist(), iterdir(), etc.) can lead to an infinite loop. This vulnerability affects both metadata reading and content extraction, potentially causing denial-of-service (DoS) attacks. Programs that do not handle user-controlled zip archives are not at risk.

How to Protect Your Systems

It is essential to update your Python packages immediately to ensure your system is protected against these vulnerabilities. Canonical has already released patches to address these security flaws across its supported versions of Ubuntu.
Ubuntu users can easily apply the latest security patches using the apt package manager. Running the following commands will help you upgrade to the most secure version of Python:
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade python3
After the update, you should confirm the version of Python installed by running:
python3 --version

Consider Extended Lifecycle Support (ELS)

If your organization is running end-of-life (EOL) Ubuntu versions, such as Ubuntu 16.04 or Ubuntu 18.04, you’re not out of options. TuxCare’s Extended Lifecycle Support (ELS) provides critical security updates for these versions, ensuring that you remain protected from vulnerabilities like those mentioned above.
TuxCare’s ELS offers five years of vendor-grade security patches beyond the EOL date, covering over 140 packages, including Python, Linux kernel, OpenSSL, glibc, and more. This service is invaluable for organizations that cannot immediately upgrade their systems but still require robust security.
It extends its protection to a wide range of Linux distributions, including:

CentOS 6, CentOS 7, and CentOS 8
CentOS Stream 8
Oracle Linux 6 and Oracle Linux 7
Ubuntu 16.04 and Ubuntu 18.04
By leveraging extended support, businesses can maintain the security of their Linux environments even after the official EOL dates. This is particularly important for organizations running legacy systems that are critical to their operations but are not yet ready for major upgrades.

Source: USN-7015-1
addr-spec
@company.example.com
email/_parseaddr.py
tarfile.TarFile
zipfile.ZipFile
namelist()
iterdir()
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade python3
python3 --version