
It’s no secret that retail, hospitality and consumer-facing companies face cybersecurity concerns. Security breaches damage the trust customers have in a brand, hurt revenue and may even cause permanent damage to the brand.
Every indicator suggests that cyberattacks will continue to strike our sectors, but our collaboration helps all member security departments improve cybersecurity – and we all get ahead of the curve. The RH-ISAC Intelligence Workshops are built by members, for their retail and hospitality cybersecurity practitioner peers. These regional events give you a chance to spend the day with top retail and customer-facing cybersecurity practitioners, network with your peers and walk away with real-world strategies for taking action on your cyber threat intel.
This year, the RH-ISAC will partner with three member companies to host workshops with content voted upon and delivered by leaders in each region. As an attendee, you’ll be an active contributor, asked to roll up your sleeves and dive in to the topics most relevant for you. Here’s a peek at the lineup of topics you’ll see:
On February 26, we’ll hold our inaugural gaming and hospitality cybersecurity alliance (GHCA) intelligence workshop, exclusively for member companies in the alliance. This workshop will focus on incident response, metrics, phishing and fighting SOC burnout.
Then, on April 16, Walgreens Boots Alliance hosts an intelligence workshop at Walgreens University for retail cybersecurity practitioners in the midwest region. Member discussion will focus on processing processes, metrics, board and committee KPI reporting and threat actor infrastructure mining.
And on May 9, we’re calling all Northeast/New England organizations to join us at PVH’s New York City headquarters for their workshop. This agenda will hold topics similar to the other workshops on threat actor infrastructure mining and processing processes, but will also explore social media as a reconnaissance tool, as well as improving the security posture of your organization with extra cycles.
Each workshop starts with registration, breakfast and networking at 8 a.m., with the program running from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. A happy hour concludes the day, where you’ll be able to strengthen the relationships built during the day and continue the discussion.
We look forward to this lineup of events, coming to a city near you!