
As the ISAC for the global retail and hospitality sectors, RH-ISAC will host several in-person events in Europe this quarter to continue to serve companies that have a strong presence in the region, including Nestlé, Ahold Delhaize, Natural &Co, Tesco, and Danone. Additionally, RH-ISAC has programming to serve cybersecurity personnel in the Asia-Pacific market and works with a robust network of trade associations and government entities around the globe.
Europe
The 2023 Regional Workshop series heads to Barcelona on 20 – 21 April. Set to occur at Nestlé’s Barcelona Campus, the workshop allows attendees to expand their knowledge with a thoughtfully curated agenda that blends interactive discussions and roundtables with region- and sector-specific threat briefings and member presentations. Over the span of two days, attendees can expect an array of sessions, including an EU landscape threat briefing, CISO discussions, and how Ahold Delhaize tailored the cyber fusion model for the unique challenges of a multinational retail business.
Following Barcelona, the Regional Workshop series heads to London on 8 June. Hosted by Natura &Co, the workshop agenda includes discussion sessions on Natura &Co’s transformation journey and RH-ISAC’s sharing and engagement ecosystem. Attendees will benefit from the sharing of leading practices from consumer-facing cybersecurity teams in both Great Britain and Europe. There will also be a chance to network with colleagues and peers during a post-workshop happy hour.
Later in June, RH-ISAC will participate in Infosecurity Europe, one of Europe’s leading cybersecurity conferences. RH-ISAC has partnered with several other ISACs that cover a diverse group of sectors, including finance, automotive, aviation, health, energy, telecommunications, and local government, to exhibit at the conference and provide attendees with resources to highlight the power of information-sharing that ISACs facilitate. On 21 June, RH-ISAC will host a Meet & Greet Happy Hour for conference attendees to foster global connections. The happy hour will be hosted at the Novotel London ExCel, located a short walk from the convention location.
Asia-Pacific
In addition to European-focused events, RH-ISAC also offers resources for the Asia-Pacific market. The RH-ISAC intelligence team hosts a monthly Asia-Pacific threat briefing for APAC-based Core Members to provide region-specific intelligence briefings and updates. This call is scheduled at a time convenient for APAC time zones, making it more accessible for staff in the region to participate. The monthly event includes an overview of relevant threat intel, highlights of RH-ISAC resources, and an interactive discussion where participants can talk about pressing cybersecurity issues they are facing. RH-ISAC also has an APAC Slack channel specifically for Core Members, and/or their teams, who are based in the region to provide another outlet to discuss threats and share RFIs in real-time.
RH-ISAC is also focused on developing in-person outreach in the APAC region. RH-ISAC leadership recently traveled to Australia to participate in a ten-day mission to visit retailers in three cities across the country. In partnership with Associate Member, Palo Alto, RH-ISAC met with dozens of cybersecurity leaders to provide resources and encourage connections within the global cybersecurity community. As part of this outreach, RH-ISAC was featured on the “Re-tales: Conversations with Profit Protection” podcast.
Global Collaboration
Collaboration is essential at RH-ISAC as it promotes worldwide sharing among the cybersecurity community. To further this outreach, RH-ISAC has working relationships with many non-U.S. based trade and governmental organizations, including the British Retail Consortium, ENISA, Global Cyber Alliance, HOSPA, International Association of Department Stores, National Cyber Security Centre, National Retail Association, and Profit Protection Future Forum.
In addition, RH-ISAC is a founding member of the newly formed European Council of ISACs, which brings together ISACs from across the continent. The European Council of ISACs includes members that represent a wide range of industries, from retail and hospitality to energy and health. This collaboration will offer support on a greater scale to deepen global relationships.
Want to get involved? Learn more about how becoming a part of the RH-ISAC community could benefit your organization no matter where the company is based or where staff members reside.