
After two years of being virtual due to pandemic-related precautions, RH-ISAC’s Cyber Intelligence Summit is back in person this year! We’ll be in Dallas on September 20-21 to host the premier event for cybersecurity practitioners in the retail, hospitality, and travel industries.
Here are just a few of the many reasons that our members are attending this year’s event.

Learn from Retail & Hospitality Experts: This year’s program was built by RH-ISAC’s Summit Working Group based on feedback we received from members, highlighting the topics most relevant to the retail and hospitality industry. Our speakers are practitioners from fellow member companies, as well as vendor partners whose security solutions cater to our sector, so you know the strategies and tactics you come away with will be applicable to your work. Check out the agenda to find sessions on risk management, ransomware, cloud security, fraud, and other key topics.

Networking with Likeminded Peers: Attending the Summit is a great way to strengthen the connections you’ve made online through RH-ISAC’s sharing platforms. Collaborate with fellow attendees during brown bag lunch discussions, chat about what you just learned during networking breaks, and unwind at the end of the day with happy hour events. Someone you meet here could be the source of valuable threat intel, a job opportunity, or a lifelong friendship!

Get Inspired with Industry-Leading Keynotes: One of the great things about attending a conference is coming away with actionable insight and inspiring ways to improve your work. To kick off our keynotes, Ira Winkler, chief security architect at Walmart, shares how to combat the human element with effective security awareness. Next up, a panel of RH-ISAC members on the front lines of threat intel operations discuss solving real-world problems with resilience and innovation. You’ll also hear an inspiring story from Canadian Tire on lessons learned from a cybersecurity transformation and a CISO panel on the new risks and opportunities facing infosec in 3-5 years. And finally, get inside the mind of a reformed hacker and learn what matters most during Dmitry Smilyanets’ closing keynote.

Explore New Solutions: Could your tech stack use a refresh? The exhibit hall is a great, low-pressure way to discover new solutions. All of the vendors are relevant to the retail and hospitality cybersecurity sector and can offer valuable insights that could help you solve some of your technology challenges. Check out the full list of sponsors to see if you may be interested in setting up a meeting.

Celebrate a Year of Accomplishments: The Annual Member Meeting & Celebration Dinner will be held at the Star, the practice facility of the Dallas Cowboys. We’ll be announcing the winners of this year’s awards and joining together to celebrate another successful year of protecting as one. This is another great opportunity to get to know your counterparts at other member companies and make connections in a relaxed environment.
The RH-ISAC Summit is open to both RH-ISAC members and non-member companies that qualify for RH-ISAC membership. Register and check out this year’s program on the Summit website.