
Context
On April 2, 2024, Trend Micro researchers reported new technical details of a “Unapimon” malware campaign attributed to Earth Freybug, which leverages “dynamic-link library (DLL) hijacking and application programming interface (API) unhooking to prevent child processes from being monitored.”
According to Trend Micro, “UNAPIMON itself is straightforward: It is a DLL malware written in C++ and is neither packed nor obfuscated; it is not encrypted save for a single string.”
Community Impact Assessment
Trend Micro assesses that Earth Freybug is a subset of the threat group known as APT41, a prominent Chinese cyber espionage group. APT41 is known to target healthcare, telecom, technology, and video game organizations in multiple companies. However, Trend Micro did not identify specific industry targets of this campaign.
Based on the potential connection to APT41 and the sophistication and adaptability of Earth Freybug tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs), the RH-ISAC intelligence team assesses with moderate confidence that Earth Freybug presents a medium level threat to Core Member organizations. All members are advised to maintain situational awareness around the group and to review the mitigations, indicators of compromise (IOCs), and TTPs included here.
Mitigation Recommendations
Trend Micro provided the following security recommendations:

Frequent password rotation.
Limiting access to admin accounts to actual admins.
Implementing robust activity logging.
Restricting admin privileges.
Following the principle of least privilege.
IOCs
Trend Micro provided the following IOCs:


62ad0407a9cce34afb428dee972292d2aa23c78cbc1a44627cb2e8b945195bc2	Trojan[.]Win64[.]UNAPIMON[.]ZTLB
TTPs
Trend Micro noted that the TTPs in the current campaign matched those used in the Operation CuckooBees campaign widely attributed to Winnti (an alias for APT41):


Gather Victim Identity Information: Credentials	Exploit Public-Facing Application	Scheduled Task/Job	Server Software Component: Web Shell	Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service	Hijack Execution Flow: DLL Side-Loading
Gather Victim Network Information	Supply Chain Compromise	Inter-process communication		Hijack Execution Flow: DLL Side-Loading	Rootkit
		Exploitation for Client Execution		Process Injection: Dynamic-link Library Injection	Masquerading: Match Legitimate Name or Location
		Command and Scripting Interpreter: Windows Command Shell	Scheduled Task/Job: Scheduled Task	Scheduled Task/Job: Scheduled Task	Process Injection: Dynamic-link Library Injection
		Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic	Valid Accounts: Domain Accounts	Valid Accounts: Domain Accounts	Reflective Code Loading
		Native API	Valid Accounts: Local Accounts	Valid Accounts: Local Accounts	Signed Binary Proxy Execution: Rundll32
					Valid Accounts: Domain Accounts
					Valid Accounts: Local Accounts


OS Credential Dumping	System Network Configuration Discovery	Exploitation of Remote Services	Archive Collected Data: Archive via Utility	Automated Exfiltration	Application Layer Protocol: Web Protocols
	Remote System Discovery	Remote Services: Remote Desktop Protocol	Automated Collection		Proxy
	Password Policy Discovery				
	Permission Groups Discovery				
	Network Share Discovery				
	System Service Discovery				
	System Time Discovery				
	System Network Connections Discovery				
	Account Discovery				
	System Owner/User Discovery				
	System Information Discovery				
	Process Discovery				