
The RH-ISAC Cyber Intelligence Summit in Dallas, Texas, is right around the corner. From October 2 – 4, cybersecurity practitioners in retail and hospitality will meet at RH-ISAC’s largest conference of the year to explore solutions to pressing issues, expand their skillset, and network. This year, we developed an extensive program featuring a range of tactical sessions focusing on topical issues. These tactical sessions are led by seasoned cybersecurity practitioners, providing attendees with practical strategies that can be applied specifically to retail and hospitality organizations.
Practitioner Perspectives: State of CTI, 2023, and Beyond
Join experienced cybersecurity practitioners on October 3 at 10:15 a.m. for a conversation on how to better approach and defend against current as well as future threats. This session will even highlight new resources available within and outside of the RH-ISAC. Session speakers include Christina Azene, senior manager of cyber threat intelligence at Expedia, Matt Brady, director of cybersecurity at Target, Steve Diamond, senior cyber threat intelligence analyst at SHEIN, Eren Girgin, AVP, cyber threat management, Canadian Tire Corp., and will be moderated by Julie Gregory, cyber threat intelligence analyst at Victoria’s Secret.
Security Control Validation on a Budget
On October 3 at 2:50 p.m., Aaron’s, Inc. team members Jonathan Buckner, associate information security engineer, and Tyler Compton, lead information security engineer, will examine Security Control Validation; a form of Purple Teaming that specializes in gap analysis to ensure the coverage and effectiveness of existing security solutions such as EDRS and DLP deployments. During their presentation, they will outline an economical and cost-effective solution to validating security controls within an organization by leveraging open-source tools such as Atomic Red Team and Vectr.
Hospitality Threat Landscape Panel Discussion
Four seasoned practitioners will join forces on October 4 at 10 a.m. to discuss the ever-evolving hospitality threat landscape and provide their insights surrounding current threats in the future. Issues such as fraud, ransomware, threat actor tactics, infostealers, RATs, and nation-state threats will be addressed during this panel discussion. Speakers include Joseph Gothelf, VP of cybersecurity at Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, Nezha Ould Slimane, manager of information security at Marriott, Brandon Morse, leader threat intel at Hyatt, and moderator Chad Harmon, manager of cyber threat intelligence at IHG Hotels & Resorts.
Converging Forces: Fusing Cyber and Fraud Intel in Today’s Complex Threat Landscape
On October 4 at 1:30 p.m., Target team members Ryan Miller, senior director of cybersecurity and Leah Schwartzman, lead cybersecurity analyst will expand upon the importance of tracking fraud activity and how cybersecurity teams can incorporate a dedicated fraud tracking capability. They will also examine how to leverage traditional intelligence workflows and tools via fraud case examples to deliver significant impacts to businesses from mitigating malicious fraud operations.
If you have not registered for the Summit yet, it’s not too late. For more information about the RH-ISAC Cyber Intelligence Summit, including registration details and the entire schedule, please visit summit.rhisac.org.