
The 2021 RH-ISAC Cyber Intelligence Summit will feature keynote presentations from thought leaders within various cybersecurity domains and industries. The virtual conference is free for RH-ISAC members, and eligible non-members may also attend for a small fee, so don’t miss out on hearing from these industry leaders. Register now >
Founding partner of the Krebs Stamos Group, and previous director of the federal Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA)
Chris Krebs joins RH-ISAC President Suzie Squier in the opening keynote for an intimate conversation that will showcase his expertise in emerging national security events, such as the rise of ransomware, defending elections, cyberattacks on infrastructure, and the growing challenges of disinformation. Chris will provide actionable insights into how organizations can become more resilient and how leaders in any line of business can be prepared for cyber threats today and ready for what’s coming in the future.

New York Times journalist and best-selling author
The event’s closing keynote speaker is Nicole Perlroth, an award-winning journalist who covers cybersecurity for The New York Times, where her work has been optioned for both film and television. In this candid conversation, she will discuss her book “This Is How They Tell Me the World Ends,” a non-fiction account that details the shadow market and cyber arms trade, and the urgent threat facing critical infrastructure in the U.S. today. Nicole will share her thoughts on the role security plays in an accelerated, interconnected future, and the growing threat — rather, ‘nightmare’ — that must be untangled.
In addition to these individual speakers, RH-ISAC Summit will also feature keynotes from panels of executives from top brands.
CISOs from Wayfair, Under Armour, and Wyndham Hotels & Resorts
The cybersecurity narrative has changed. Effective cybersecurity leaders must think not only about protection, but also about recovery. In a world with ever-evolving cyber risk, it’s not IF, but when. In this panel discussion, CISO Perspectives: Cyber Resiliency and Leadership, Eric Brohm, SVP & CISO at Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, Matt Dunlop, VP & CISO at Under Armour, and Marnie Wilking, global head of security and technology at Wayfair, will discuss their thoughts, approaches, successes, and challenges around driving resiliency within their organizations
SVPs from Target
The months since the pandemic began have proven to be an extreme test for organizations as they quickly pivoted to a digital-first environment and faced new operational realities including an acceleration of cyber threats. In this session, “Scaling and Evolving Cybersecurity for a Digital-First World,” Target tech leaders, Rich Agostino, SVP and CISO, and Nancy King, SVP of Technology, will reflect on the company’s digital transformation over the years and the ever-evolving role of the chief information security officer in enterprise growth.
Executives from national associations and a leading consumer brand
Sailaja Kotra-Turner, global director of IT security and governance at Brown-Forman Corporation, Larry Whiteside, president of ICMCP, and Kerstin Zell, VP of operations and strategy at Executive Women’s Forum, will discuss the role of the individual leader, cybersecurity team, and ISAC community in diversity and inclusion efforts in the session “Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: What’s our Role?” Hear how DEI is being defined across the industry, how organizational policies and processes should evolve, and what we can do as individuals and a community to identify and overcome the challenges that are preventing marginalized talent from being heard, seen, and promoted.
