
Incorporating security into the software development lifecycle helps ensure the creation of secure and robust software applications from the very beginning. To further evolve our security offerings in the developer community, we announced our partnership with Atlassian to introduce Snyk Security in Jira Cloud as a part of the Security in Jira launch in June.
Snyk started gradually rolling out the Jira Security App and has significantly improved the functionality and features available to users. Snyk Security in Jira Cloud has quickly become a breakout leader in security in Jira.
What is Snyk Security in Jira Cloud
Snyk Security in Jira Cloud can detect vulnerabilities in third-party dependencies, first-party code issues, container vulnerabilities, and IaC misconfigurations with Snyk Open Source, Snyk Code, Snyk Container, and Snyk IaC, respectively. In Jira, software development teams can triage vulnerabilities impacting their code, prioritize vulnerabilities to be fixed by security level, and open Jira issues to resolve them. This native Jira integration allows Snyk users to create security issues in Jira, link issues together, and support multiple Snyk targets and Jira projects.
“Snyk with Security in Jira Software’s new DevSecOps automation capabilities will help us accelerate capturing and assigning security issues to the appropriate teams to prioritize and mitigate vulnerabilities sooner.”
- Charles Illingworth, Software Engineering Team Lead, Motability Operations
Integrating Snyk in Jira makes it easy to:

Unify development and security teams by enabling them to collaborate better with a shared context.
Catch and correct issues without extensive security knowledge.
Keep track of the vulnerabilities and issues affecting your projects.
Getting Started in Jira Cloud
Snyk Security in Jira Cloud is available in the Atlassian Marketplace and is free for all Snyk and Jira plan users. Check out this video or review our documentation to install in a few easy steps. All first-time users will receive a free, 45-day Snyk trial with unlimited tests and extra features.