
XSS, the Russian-speaking hacker forums have banned all topics publicizing ransomware to prevent unwanted attention and to share knowledge about exploits, vulnerabilities, malware, and network penetration.
An Insight on the Announcement:
U.S. fuel pipeline’s operation, law enforcement and security researchers have been increasingly scrutinizing the ransomware gang and sites that promote it for a couple of weeks.
As a result, Yelisey Boguslavskiy, the owner of the XSS hacking forum, known as ‘Admin,’ posted today that forum topics promoting ransomware are no longer allowed at the site.
The Translated Text Below
“Degradation on the face. Newbies open up the media, see some crazy virtual millions of dollars that they will never get. They don’t want anything, they don’t learn anything, they don’t code anything, they just don’t even think, the whole essence of coming down to “encrypt – get $”. They just run to GitHub, look for locker sorts there and run to encrypt everything they see. Since our forum is aimed at beginners, this factor is important to us.
Too much PR. Lockers (ransom) have accumulated a critical mass of nonsense, nonsense, hype, noise. When you meet the ” Ransomvarny negotiator ” Profession, you understand that you are in the looking glass or just crazy. Moreover, 90% of this madness was created artificially, feeding this hype. Those who make good money on this noise (exchanges, insurance, intermediaries, media, etc.)
Policy and hazard level. Peskov is forced to make excuses in front of our overseas “friends” – this is some kind of nonsense and exaggeration. The word ranso was equated with a number of unpleasant phenomena – geopolitics, extortion, government hacking. This word has become dangerous and toxic.
Lockers will exist for a long time. This phenomenon was too loudly promoted.”
Disappointment Expressed by REvil
The disappointment was expressed by the gang behind REvil ransomware soon after this announcement.
As more hacking communities make ransomware operations unwelcome, it will become harder for RaaS operations to recruit new affiliates and promote their activities.
You can follow us on Linkedin, Twitter, Facebook for daily Cyber security and hacking news updates.
Also Read
Hackers Behind Qlocker Ransomware Made $260,000 in 5 days
Understanding and Protecting Against Ransomware Attacks