
The cybersecurity community is excited as Parrot Security OS, a popular Linux distribution tailored for security professionals, ethical hackers, and privacy enthusiasts, has just released its latest version: Parrot 6.1.
This update brings a host of new features, improvements, and bug fixes that promise to enhance the user experience and bolster the system’s capabilities. Here’s a detailed look at what’s new in Parrot 6.1.
One of Parrot 6.1’s standout features is its enhanced security measures. The development team has integrated the latest security patches and updates to ensure the system remains resilient against emerging threats.
This includes updates to the Linux kernel, which now stands at version 6.3. These provide improved hardware support and performance enhancements.
Additionally, Parrot 6.1 introduces new security tools and updates to existing ones. Notable additions include the latest versions of Metasploit, Burp suite, and Wireshark, essential tools for penetration testing and network analysis.
These updates ensure that users have access to the most current and effective tools for their security assessments.
Looking for Full Data Breach Protection? Try Cynet's All-in-One Cybersecurity Platform for MSPs: Try Free Demo
Improved User Interface
Parrot 6.1 also brings a refreshed user interface to improve usability and aesthetics. The new interface is more intuitive, with a cleaner design and better organization of menus and settings. This makes it easier for new and experienced users to navigate the system and access the necessary tools.
The update includes enhancements to the MATE desktop environment, known for its lightweight and customizable nature. Users will notice smoother animations, improved window management, and a more responsive overall experience, which contribute to a more pleasant and efficient workflow.
The software repository in Parrot 6.1 has been expanded to include a broader range of applications and tools. This expansion ensures that users have access to the latest software for their security and development needs.
The repository now includes updated versions of popular programming languages, development environments, and security tools.
Moreover, the Parrot team has improved package management tools to make installing and managing software packages easier. These include better dependency resolution and faster package downloads, making it more convenient for users to keep their systems up to date.
Privacy is a core focus of Parrot Security OS, and version 6.1 continues this tradition with several new privacy-focused features. The system now includes improved support for anonymous browsing and communication tools like Tor and I2P.
These tools have been updated to their latest versions, ensuring users can maintain their privacy and anonymity online.
Additionally, Parrot 6.1 introduces new privacy settings that allow users to fine-tune their system’s behavior to protect their personal information better. These settings provide greater control over data sharing, tracking, and other privacy-related aspects of the system.
What’s new in Parrot OS 6.1

Anonsurf 4.2: Improved stability and fixed launcher script issues.
Parrot-updater: Re-introduced update reminder popup.
Nmap: Fixed errors in mssql scanning lua script.
Burpsuite 2024.2.1.3: Updated to latest version and fixed java inconsistency.
Sqlmap 1.8.3: Upgraded for better SQL injection detection and testing.
Sslscan 2.1.3: Updated to latest version.
Zaproxy 2.14: New version with enhanced web app security testing tools.
Netexec 1.1.1: Replaced crackmapexec, offers same features.
Metasploit 6.4.6: Updated with new exploits and improvements.
Woeusb-ng 0.2.12: Upgraded for better Windows USB boot drive creation.
Volatility3 1.0.1: Updated for enhanced memory forensics and analysis.
Rizin 0.7.2: New version with improved reverse engineering tools.
Powershell-empire 5.9.5: Updated for better post-exploitation capabilities.
Instaloader 4.11: Upgraded for improved Instagram data scraping.
Gdb-gef 2024.1: Updated with new features and improvements.
Evil-winrm 3.5: Enhanced for better Windows Remote Management interaction.
Bind9, Chromium, Firefox, Webkit: Security updates applied.
Golang 1.21, Grub 2.12, Libc6, Glibc6, Pipewire 1.0.5, Libreoffice 24.2, Openjdk, Php8, Ruby 3.1: Updated for security and performance.
Performance Improvements
Performance has always been a key consideration for Parrot Security OS, and version 6.1 brings several optimizations that enhance system performance.
To Update
sudo parrot-upgrade
or
sudo apt update && sudo apt full-upgrade
These improvements include faster boot times, reduced memory usage, and better system responsiveness. Users will experience a more efficient and reliable system, whether conducting security assessments or performing everyday tasks.
Parrot 6.1 is a significant update that brings a wealth of new features, improvements, and enhancements to the popular security-focused Linux distribution.
With its enhanced security measures, improved user interface, expanded software repository, and strengthened privacy features, Parrot 6.1 is poised to be a valuable tool for security professionals and privacy-conscious users.
The performance improvements further solidify its position as a top choice for those seeking a robust and efficient operating system.
Looking for Full Data Breach Protection? Try Cynet's All-in-One Cybersecurity Platform for MSPs:
Try Free Demo