
Leading log management and metrics company Logit.io is pleased to announce that they have expanded their offering to include a new dedicated UK data center.
Logit.io has had a number of dedicated data centres across the EMEA & US regions for some time making the addition of their UK data centre the latest example of their continued growth in these markets.
As well as complete logging and metrics monitoring Logit.io is also home to managed Open Distro ELK bringing together the best open source security and reporting features available for the Elastic Stack, now available for deployment across all of their geographic regions.
“We see growing interest from companies to use our ELK observability platform across the UK, with requirements for data locality and sovereignty becoming an ever-important priority,” said Kieran Southern, Chief Product Officer, at Logit.io.
“These changes will provide our growing set of customers in the United Kingdom, Europe and the US the ability to start a free trial and deploy production-ready Open Distro ELK instances in the cloud in minutes. Our customers tell us that they love the technical support they get from our engineers at Logit.io in addition to features like our hosted Logstash pipelines and Read-Only Kibana access that just works.”
These platform and region updates allow users from EMEA territories, the United States & the UK to select their corresponding data centre so they can ensure that data is being processed in compliance with their specific regional data guidelines.
For larger organisations that operate across multiple regions, Logit.io also enables you to create Stacks in different regions making their platform fully integrated for customers that require multi-region compliance from their logging and metrics observability platform.
For enterprise-level customers that operate across multiple territories, this news will be a welcome addition for those that wish to maintain data compliance across all of the countries in which they operate.
It is especially advisable for users operating within EU member states specifically, in accordance with EU regulations, that these companies store their data in data centres that also reside within the EU.
Logit.io’s continued investment towards data residency by maintaining multiple highly available data centres forms just a small part of their commitment towards compliance and enterprise-grade security for the platform.
In addition to enabling their users to process data in compliance with their respective territories, the Logit.io platform also operates in compliance with Service Organisation Control (SOC2), GDPR, ISO 27001, HIPPA & PCI.
The UK region, like all of the regions Logit.io cover, offers all of the managed Open Distro ELK and logging and metrics features that enterprise and public sector organisations expect, including but not limited to;

Auto-scaling platform that grows with your data requirements
Gov.uk Approved Platform as a Service (PaaS)
Enterprise uptime SLAs available to 99.999%
Index snapshots for long term storage for AWS, GCP and Azure
Unified Cloud and hybrid cloud monitoring
Advanced role-based access controls
Onboarding and engineer led support
Hundreds of data integrations
Logging as a Service (LaaS)
IT infrastructure monitoring
Log aggregation
New customers that wish to host their data in an additional territory not detailed above are encouraged to reach out to Logit.io’s support team to discuss their specific data centre needs.

Ensure region compliance with your log analysis platform by using Logit.io:
Company Biography: Logit.io is used globally by thousands of users from public & private sector organizations to manage their logs and metrics for complete cloud observability, security and monitoring as well as data analytics and business intelligence.
Logit.io enables IT leaders at leading companies such as Maersk, IBM, Murphy Oil & Nikon to ensure complete observability of their operations and strengthen their security and alerting abilities.
Contact:
Logit.io
Eleanor Bennett
Digital Marketing Specialist|
ebennett@logit.io