

Google is putting its weight behind a project to offer a comprehensive view of your software. Enter GUAC: Graph for Understanding Artifact Composition.
Knowing a vulnerability’s blast radius would be super helpful. Software Bills of Materials (SBOMs) and SLSA are fine — as far as they go — but there’s a need to bring thousands or millions of sources together into one, universal graph that’s easily queried. As software supply chain risks become more and more acute, knowledge is power.
It’s an open source project. In this week’s Secure Software Blogwatch, we go to GitHub and check it out.
Your humble blogwatcher curated these bloggy bits for your entertainment. Not to mention: You can’t handle the truth.
[ Get a free SBOM and supply chain risk analysis report ]
Dip into this tasty repo
What’s the craic? Howard Solomon reports — “Google announced a way to help”:
More detail please. Jaikumar Vijayan expands on that neat summary — “GUAC Aims to Democratize Software Supply Chain Security”:
GUAC? Surely there’s a childish easter egg in the acronym? Brandon Vigliarolo obliges — “Slap some GUAC on your software supply chain”:
The horse’s mouth? Google’s Brandon Lum, Mihai Maruseac and Isaac Hepworth — “Announcing GUAC”:
ELI5? Terretta explains like we’re 5-ish:
Clear as mud. Jacques Chester takes a step back — “Requirements for a Universal Asset Graph”:
But is it any good? Gravis Zero calls it a “Step in the right direction”:
Tune in to KubeCon tomorrow. Mihai Maruseac and Michael Lieberman present — “It's Dangerous To SLSA Alone Out There”:
Meanwhile, fidodogbreath suggests a better oh-so-clever acronym — for real:
And Finally:
A few good toys


Previously in And finally
You have been reading Secure Software Blogwatch by Richi Jennings. Richi curates the best bloggy bits, finest forums, and weirdest websites … so you don’t have to. Hate mail may be directed to @RiCHi or ssbw@richi.uk. Ask your doctor before reading. Your mileage may vary. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Do not stare into laser with remaining eye. E&OE. 30.
Image sauce: Juan Manuel Giraldo Grisales (via Unsplash; leveled and cropped)