Getting started with LoRaWAN (Low Power Wide Area Network) using Python

When people talk about the Internet of Things my first thought is for the botnets that infest out-of-support devices with security flaws that can only be patched by a disinterested or nonexistent vendor.

How does your platform address that?
433 mhz is "low frequency" these days? Wow, how times have changed! 
How many times have you reposted this ad? Sorry, but I'm gonna stick with Qualcomm 
IoT Botnets usually install malicious software into systems by exploiting security holes in "pc-like" devices. This happens when the device has an ip address and some sort of high level operating system like linux or android. Microcontrollers, the target hardware of Zerynth, don't have linux-like operating systems, so it is very difficult to "install" something on them remotely unless the attacker gains access to the over-the-air update server (if the particular iot deployment uses one). In particular, Lora nodes don't have an ip address, so they can't be accessed remotely and, given the low bandwidth of the technology, are almost impossible to update remotely.
2 times. One time here and one time in the Arduino subreddit. It's not an ad. They're useful info for the community.
Posted 3 times in the past day, -1
When you say things like "they can't be accessed remotely" and "almost impossible to update remotely" along with "over-the-air update server" I get really suspicious. You also use "usually" and "difficult" and "almost" a lot more than I'm comfortable with.

That nobody has attacked these things so far is not a defence. That was also true of Internet enabled security cameras before mirai.

I'm afraid it sounds like you haven't thought this through. If I build a product on your platform which then turns out to have a critical flaw you don't want to patch for some reason, what options do I have?
Over the air update via lora is officially supported only by linklabs symphony link proprietary network. You can find a lot of info about symphony security layer on the linklabs dedicated page https://www.link-labs.com/symphony. 


Link labs make good noises but fall short too. PKI for device authentication is good but a search of their technical documentation returns no details.

Maybe since you are building on their systems you know someone there and can get them into this conversation.
Zerynth uses LoraWAN protocol via the things network servers. This doesn't support over the air updates. I posted you the symphony details because I know it supports ota but I am sorry I don't know anyone that can give you more details about it. you can try to contact the linklabs team for this. 
