Seeking Advice: Automating Tasks with Python Under Strict IT Restrictions
Edit: Just to clarify I'm not looking to do anything risky, definitely not putting my arse on the line. I spoke to a colleague that is on the same boat and he uses Power automate desktop (company approved) a lot, very successfully. Apparently Python can be used with Power automate, so I'll see how it goes. Thanks for all the tips!

I’m currently a Computer Science student and work as an Applications Support Engineer. 

I have been encountering a lot of manual and repetitive tasks at my job that I’m eager to automate to improve my productivity. 

However, theres a lot of IT restrictions on my work laptop. Even the developers on another team face similar challenges and end up using their personal devices for certain tasks due to these limitations.

Previously, in a different role within the same company, I successfully automated tasks using Excel Power Query, Excel VBA, and Power Automate. I’m new to Python and would like to leverage it for automation as well, but I’m unsure how to navigate the IT restrictions.

Does anyone have experience or advice on how to deal with such situations? Any workarounds or tips on using Python in a restricted IT environment would be greatly appreciated!

Thank you in advance for your help!
Using own/private devices for corporate data is a terrible solution from a security perspective, but might go under the radar out of ignorance.

Python in itself is not an issue. Using corporate data with external systems is though. So if you can handle it locally and on your job computer then it's low risk.
Depends on the size of your company I suppose. I work at a company of 100 people and had the same issue. I complained to my manager about this and he asked me to come up with a plan. I presented the plan to my manager and some leads and i got approved. So i guess you could try something similar. Make sure that your plan covers the needs of everyone involved not just your own.
If you manage to automate it, don't tell anyone
Well, this is entering Shadow IT area and a cybersecurity issue, thats why generally a security is compromised if people do this BUT of course, automating is nice

I'd suggest to at least ask/hint to your boss/supervisor and  ask for their viewpoints or at least minimal approvals
Developers shouldn’t have to struggle with narrow permissions. It’s an indicator that your company is poorly managed. Run…

My experience is that good companies understand the need of developers for more permissions than the average office guy. If this is a restriction on your side, it honestly depends on what sort of thing you have to automate. Many things can be offloaded to the cloud (though conservative companies won’t like that). But this is not an option for all sorts of tasks.
The question is very vague, "IT restrictions" could mean anything.

If you can run Python, setup a virtual environment and install packages from pip, you can use it to do anything related with gui automation and working with files.
It really depends on what you are running into:
- I've seen infosec policies that banned all non-white listed executables that were created within the last 6 months of current date.
- The whole sslcertificate issue with pip.
- Also to not being able to install for all users which at least was a default setting, if installed just for your user it shouldn't require escalation.
- I've also seen issues around not being able to add anything to path.
- Restrictions around PowerShell preventing pyenv usage.
Serve your time quietly and get out as soon as you can.

Companies where IT locks down the production equipment of engineering staff to this extent aren't modern places to thrive and develop solutions.
I'm in the same boat, we had Python at one point and were warned it was going away so I compiled what I could before then. 

Maybe you can accomplish the same automation with powershell instead? It's less capable and takes more to do the same imo but it might be suitable. This is the route I've taken. 

Or perhaps your company is really stupid like mine and allows you to use some other app with an embedded Python.
[removed]
Be persistent and escalate through your superior. Anything that you can automate that isn't a clear and present danger to infosec is something you should always protect and advocate. Don't let infosec strangle the company.
Step 1 learn python, step 2 read Al Swiegart's book automate the boring stuff with python. You havnt really described what you wanna automate so that doesn't help.
Sounds like you have a boomer IT department, which isn't something one person can normally change.

And I say this as an engineer working in cyber security. All of our users have full admin, it's been the same at every company I've worked at for the last 10 years. We just buy competent EDR, MDM, etc. If a user downloads something dumb I get a slack notification about how the tool I bought did its job.

If you need to lock down perms that much to keep things under control you aren't a competent IT/Security team.
 pip install --trusted-host=pypi.org --trusted-host=files.pythonhosted.org --user <package> is your best friend

This is for installing packages on work laptop
Use something like Google Colab? Access to files may be an issue depending on your specific situation, but I have used it in similar situations with pretty comparable results.
Improve productivity??? Do it and dont tell anyone or you will be working even more lol
Download python interpreter and all the libraries manually. Put them in a local directory. 

Works like a charm. I did it in my previous org.
No-body would even notice.
So if you’re an azure shop setup a custom pypi repo on azure artifacts, this allows you to bypass firewall for pip. 

And python can be installed by non admins perms and ran if you run windows 11 ;) Not gonna say it out loud cus i don’t want the sysadmins to see it. 

But tbh just go through the bureaucracy and setup python properly with proper network access and all because god you don’t wanna be the guy who causes the company to lose money
You can install the cpython from python.org and everything from pypi without admin permissions
Might help to come up with some cost saving use case ideas. If you get some backing from managers with dollar signs in their eyes, it can go a long way.

A couple that come to mind:

Standard library is all you need to communicate with and automate Zebra label printers. Might be useful in a warehouse. 

Most major CAD packages have python apis (though some require some Jerry rigging). Solidworks, Altium, A lot of Autodesk stuff, etc.

If you use the PowerBI suite it allows you to make custom graphical elements and use python for data transformation. 

We do a lot of custom report generation at my work using python. Basically taking 10+ files of part test data and spits out a PDF that visualizes everything. 

We had someone using python to OCR a couple thousand hand written production travelers. 

The list goes on. But my point is don't just say "I want python so I can automate stuff". Come up with some creative and real world use cases ahead of time and get your managers excited. Then you can be like "look at all this time and money we could potentially save if IT would just get the stick out of their ass".
Couple of ideas.

1. Try installing python 'per user' instead of a system install. It'll float in your user profile instead of floating around in c:\\program files\\.



2. Put a legitimate request in. Try to get an average on how much time saved per hour will be generated if you are allowed to make code. Be specific on what you need.

  
3. If refused, ask if there is a non-networked workstation or mock environment you can make a prototype on.
Although it may not help with some things, I have found that a Django application running remotely can give you access to many "data in data out" utilities in those locked down situations.
I am one of 140k employees. Cannot even delete an old icon from my  desktop. Not to mention getting python etc

But you can have a career with VBA :-)
Python libraries are very much an issue, sadly
Thanks, there's around 1200 employees. I get what you are saying, when I joined the company it was much easier, now it's too much bureaucracy. Obviously they have to be careful but it's too much now. There are data analysts that don't have access to the data they were hired to work with for example.
100%

I've learned the lesson. And if I have to - for some reason - tell anyone I never use the word 'automation'.
People say this all the time on reddit and I think it's just terrible advice. 


It's unlikely that OP wants to stay in this job long term. If you automate things and improve efficiency for your job, you're going to have amazing references for the next job you want. 


Hiding the fact that you automated stuff is such a short term thinking imo. Do you really want to just sit around for 8 hours a day pretending that you're working? How long are you going to do that? 


At some point you're just going to get to the point where you wasted a huge part of your life doing nothing and gaining nothing from it. Unfortunately you have to work and be there anyways, so why wouldn't you take the opportunity to leverage that experience into a better job? 
Also, if there are network-access concerns for pip, keep in mind that in a pinch, you could:

1. Figure out exactly which packages/versions you need
2. Download those by hand
3. Commit them to git
4. Have a requirements.txt like:

&#8203;

    deps/openpyxl-3.1.2-py2.py3-none-any.whl
This, exactly. Don’t suffer any longer than you need to suffer, and be sure to let them know why you are leaving when the time comes.
This is the best answer ^ any job I’ve had which has had locked down IT and took ages to get whitelisted I just used anaconda, but if this is simple business automation I think one of those low code tools like Power Automate or Zapier can help you
Yes, but prefer a virtualenv over `--user` for project dependencies.

    python -m venv .env
    source .env/bin/activate
    pip install --trusted-host=pypi.org --trusted-host=files.pythonhosted.org [package]
Why would anyone put up with this type of environment?
Yeah you gotta read em before you use em. You can trust vanilla python though and there's plenty that can be achieved with just that.
How?

Edit: Was just asking
Yeah I had exactly the same thing at my previous company (30k employees). I don't think there's much you can do other than keep pushing. After 5 months or so they gave me access.
Just enjoy the extra free time lol
I did too, it's better to make your boss believe you are working harder or are becoming better at the task.
I'm learning thay now. 

I just use Python sites and manually put what modules in and run everything out of a directory. (Win10)
Not only that but, in a lot of fields, you want to advertise your ability to automate even the simplest things.

I work in the engineering design field for clients. If I can accomplish a task in half the time as a competitor, my company can bid lower, win more work, and we all make more money. Damn right I'm letting everyone know when I build something cool.

That doesn't mean I tell clients I wrote a script that can download shapefiles from SharePoint and update a database automatically, but it does mean I can bid on construction drawing deliverables as though it takes 4 hours a page when it takes others 8, and it really only takes me an hour and a half.

Every little bit adds up.
Keep the experience, document it elsewhere, put in your CV, LinkedIn, tell your friends, whatever... Never tell work colleges or your boss. 

Two possibilities:
> They move you to automate other tasks -> you get extra work.

> They fire you -> and they learn that some processes can be automated, even if they don't get the source code.

I have already lived this drama once myself and it happened to a friend with a law data entry job which I automated too, people finding out in your workplace NEVER has a good outcome. 

There are other stories on Reddit about this too.
I personally use it like that because I need global installation across accounts and in different places to virtualenv is a bit restrictive.

Regular dev I use venv
There are all the tools required to get the job done. 
Everything is controlled and the laptops with corporate data are secured.
Risk that they contain malicious code.
There are thousands of libraries and not really a foolproof process to check them. A small unknown package that you use for, say, combining excel sheets from different files can also have code that sends the content somewhere.
Exactly. This advice of hiding your automation accomplishments is basically telling you to hide the fact that you made yourself valuable. It's terrible advice. 

If you automated something valuable, congrats because you just found leverage that you use to get more money, get a promotion, or get a better job. This advice is basically saying fuck all that, don't take advantage of any of that. Instead you should be a lazy ass and hide it until you can't. If you just think about it for a minute, it's insanely stupid.
Legitimately some of the worst advice I've ever seen.

You shouldn't be basing your career decisions on stories from reddit. Just saying there's never a good outcome doesn't make it true. That's just pure horseshit.

Some of the first things I ever wrote were bash scripts that automated some testing of hard drives when I was a server tech. My boss was stoked about it because it saved so much time for our team, and it helped me launch into another job later on that was all programing. I still use that boss as a reference and I've done side work with him for that previous company again after I left.

They aren't going to fire you because you automated stuff. If they could have automated it without you then they would have.

You're going to get assigned more things to automate? Why the fuck is that a bad thing? That's just more stuff you can can get experience with and use to go on to a better job. You automated the old job in the first place because you didn't want to do it, and now you don't have to. 

Do you really just want to sit around doing nothing for 8 hours a day? What a waste of time.
My youngest brother parlayed automating his job into a career from which he retired at 50 with a pension.

It's not all doom and gloom.
Yes, that’s the excuse used by corporations when enforcing draconian IT policies. 

All companies believe their data to be up there with nuclear secrets when 98% hold nothing of real value to any malicious actor. Your number one threat is crypto malware which can be mitigated with proper network management and a strict backup policy while being very transparent to the users. Everything else is just window dressing to make  IT departments and corporate lawyers feel like secret agents.
glob?
You work for money and the hopes of getting better jobs.

This likely will get you neither, there's little to gain by risking your position.
>You work for money and the hopes of getting better jobs. 

No fucking shit. That's why if you automated something valuable then there is zero reason that you shouldn't be leveraging that to improve your own situation.
If you want to improve your situation, put it in your resume, gain experience or do other projects.
>gain experience

Yeah surely hiding the fact you automated things at work will help achieve this. Work experience is more valuable than anything else. You're advice is to actively avoid getting more of it at your current job if you automated something.
Again, by telling your boss you are risking your position for very little.

* Risk of job loss is high, even if you stay, expect more work.
* Automation knowledge can make you a target for replacement.
* Your colleagues' jobs could also be jeopardized.
* A company's priority is profit, not being loyal.
* Your pay won't increase much or won't increase at all,
* You are setting the bar higher for both you and everyone else.
* You are breaking security policies.

Not sure about you, but I wouldn't want to put my colleagues and me at risk by increasing the outcomes of someone who doesn't give a fuck about me and could fire me at any time.

Those are skills you can easily put on a CV, Medium, LinkedIn or anywhere else where you could manage to land a job or leverage to make a side hustle or business.
This is total boogeyman bullshit. If they could have automated it before then they would have.
