How can we determine modules are safe or not?
What if we install malicious module in our system?

Are python modules malicious? And how to detect as a beginner?
A lot of code can be used maliciously if the wrong people have access to it on your machine, although the extent of the damage it can cause is very much dependent on the permissions granted to what you’re running it with.

Since most libraries for python are open source, it’s generally a safe bet to use any of the more popular ones. A lot of smaller libraries that aren’t well known quite possibly have a small enough amount of code that you can look through it to get a sense of what it does, and if a library is unknown, complicated, and poorly documented enough that you can’t understand it, you’ll likely run into issues much sooner from a lack of updates and functionality than from it being malicious.

Note that while it’s always a good idea to be cautious when it comes to privacy and security, you’re much more likely to have problems from people getting access to your device/network through a browser link or download than something they’ve hidden in an otherwise useful python library that you’re actually interested in using.
Yes they can be malicious... Read the source code of each module, thats how you can determine that
You can use static code analysis when you install the module. There are many tools that can help there. You can also do component analysis, with a different set of tools, that checks modules for known good versions.
So, pypi.org isn't reliable?
Not per se. Anyone can post packages on pypi. No special verification is needed. 
If you want to be sure check the code after downloading the package
To be clear, anyone can post packages, but only authorized people can post a given package.  There’s an account an all that Jazz.  In other words, if you say trust numpy, you can probably always trust numpy.

If it’s not a mainstream package, you should audit it.  The code could be unintelligible to you (a bad thing if you’re going to be the one fixing bugs) or it could be just lousy coding, in which case you aren’t too confident in its quality.

If they’re doing weird things, understand why they’re doing it.  It’s an opportunity to learn.  It also ensures you’re not getting fleeced.
Thanks, I didn't know that!
