Detecting Russian Bots on Reddit

It is ALL based on "official" list of bots made by Reddit itself, with their own biases. 

Garbage in, garbage out.
So what are the Russian bots saying?
This is a great analysis.  I hope that you also post on [r/dataisbeautiful ](https://www.i.reddit.com/r/dataisbeautiful)
So anybody who mentions Clinton, Obama *or* Trump in /r/gif *or* /r/politics is now a Russian bot? Boy, does this make me proud for the Motherland. I'm not even certain there are still people on Reddit not in service of our glorious President.

Jokes aside, OP has made a classifier of people who are maybe interested in politics, crypto, etc *vs* people who are here to exchange GTA screenshots and turkey recipes. Even if bots were initially correctly detected by reddit (надейтесь, лошары), you can't just compare them with general population. For starters you need to sample the same subreddits, maybe the same age bracket as bots tend to impersonate, the same political affiliation, that sort of thing.
I'm right here guys
I care about MPAA, GCHQ and NSA bots more. Russians or Chinese won't be arresting me in France.
🙌🙌🙌🙌✌🤓👍
Yeah, it would feel less biased if the data/OP wasn't focused on "Russians."  Bots are everywhere, and easily obscure their source location.  The question isn't one of origin (masked or otherwise), it's one of whether a human is behind an account.

I would love to see actual data analysis that can categorize human/not-human in reddit behavior.

Note:  This is **not** a criticism of the OP -- I think the work done was interesting, and lays the groundwork for some real analysis, but I can't find any sources that cite how the suspicious accounts ( [https://www.reddit.com/wiki/suspiciousaccounts](https://www.reddit.com/wiki/suspiciousaccounts)  ) were identified for inclusion/exclusion.
I don’t interpret the description that way.  He says that he took known bots and random users, and used a word corpus to try to accurately detect the bots.  He isn’t very clear , or I skimmed over it, where the word corpus came from.  This seems very much like a sentiment analysis that I did in my BI program.
Something about Trump, Sanders, cops and cryptocurrencies, it looks like.
Привет, я люблю Трампа, Путина, питон и флягу
be quiet already! you are supposed to talk about bad russians, not real shit like governmental repression, corporate influence on elections, american war crimes, etc. etc. Uhh sorry no what I meant to say is,

found the russian bot lol lmao
No, it doesn't lay groundwork for anything. It's circular.

He took a database of "known bots" and analyzed their posting patter, but those bots were detected as bots by analyzing their posting pattern. Any pattern he finds is just a mirror reflection of the original algorithm that identified those accounts as bots.

Now, they could be detecting bots based on their ip data and such, but then again, it's pretty much garbage because only the most simplistic bot will get caught by such crude methods.
Ok, sorry that’s not really answering my question. I’d like to know if they’ve actually got anything like a political message
Watch out, we got a couple of bad asses over here! #staywoke #iamthematrix am I right?
this is the internet. You're grasping for the type of data that doesn't exist, eg, finding someone online, and confirming whether or not they're a bot by going to their house and asking them.

All of the propaganda filtering through the internet by media managers, bots run by media managers and bots in general, all have the same set of realities.

This is the internet and we live in a society.
It looks like a high school project anyways, not to be too mean, but russian bots is a serious topic, but this is just like he copy pasted from the first beginner-level scikit-learn tutorial he could find and made some pretty graphs. This is pointless at best, but at worst, deceptive.
The Russian strategy by and large isn't to promote one political ideology over the other. The only reason they wanted Trump to win is because he's incompetent (which lets Russia expand their influence unopposed for 4-8 years) and because he is controversial (which divides the American people and makes the government less functional by reducing the possibility of compromise). If the DNC had put forth their own controversial and incompetent candidate, there's a good chance the Russians would have pushed for that person.

The Russians played both sides in the election; the were found to be running both pro-Trump and pro-Hillary groups, designed to express controversial and extreme views from the right and left, to try and nudge people to the fringes. They ran pages that were outright racist trash, but the *also* were responsible for running and promoting some of the BLM, Antifa, etc pages and websites, specifically because they're controversial.

When they make the right and left hate each other so much that compromise is impossible, they (the Russians) win because the US is unable to effectively run itself. Specifically: they want you to think that both the right and left are the strawmen that you see plastered on the news, Facebook, and Reddit. They want the left to think that every Republican is a Nazi, and they want the right to think that every Democrat is an America-hating communist. And if you think either of those things about the other side (regardless of which that is), then congratulations: you've been played by the Kremlin.

Personally, I wouldn't be surprised at all if the Russians weren't also promoting pro-Brexit propaganda, in order to weaken the UK and EU.
Its easy to quickly dismiss any opposition to prevailing narratives, I'm just saying the mainstream crusade against supposed russian influencing democratic elections (in the US) is for the most part unsubstantiated and vastly overblown. If you were genuinely troubled by malicious third party influence on democracy, instead of parroting the prevailing mainstream narrative, you would recognize the vast disconnect of the actual, provable, quantifiable influence that corporations have on US elections.

But hey, if it makes me a laughing stock to agree with [Noam Chomsky](https://www.counterpunch.org/2017/03/03/most-of-the-world-is-just-collapsing-in-laughter-on-claims-that-russia-intervened-in-the-us-election-an-interview-with-noam-chomsky/) and [actual journalists](https://theintercept.com/staff/glenn-greenwald/), then fine.
let's not pretend we're not capable of thinking critically here
I'd still like to see what their message is for myself. I looked at the last list of "Russian bots" posted by Reddit and I couldn't even find any political content.
Ahhh, whataboutism. WHAT ABOUT CORPORATIONS!?!?! 

No shit dumbass, multiple things are fucking up your shitty country.
...they don't have a message.
Its incredible to suggest that the billions corporations are investing to influence elections with malicious intent is anywhere near comparable to the amount of influence russia has on the election with a few social media bots.

People voted for Trump because of the systemic failure of the democratic party and the broken electoral system, not because some foreign government convinced millions of people to vote for him with some imaginary large scale bot psyop attack for which there doesn't even exist any evidence.
Honest question: do you think many people working on many things which may oppose each other is more efficient and effective than many people working towards a few, or one thing?

I keep seeing this counter argument - vegans have their own opinion. Then it’s about military spending. Then green energy. Then it doesn’t matter because of what the last president did.
