Can my IT department tell (without any sortve deep dive) that I'm using a python script to login?
I have to do timesheets for my crew every morning, and it takes about twenty minutes a day. I've long since thought I could automate this, and write a little proof of concept and it worked. 

It would however involve using pyautogui to enter my login information including password into our time management software. Do you think this could get me into shit with the IT department?
Everyone is making suggestions on how to automate not getting caught; may I suggest another route?

Expand your tool so that you still need to take the minimum required steps to fulfill your responsibilities while automating the parts you don't.

For instance: Don't automate login. Do that yourself; you will avoid IT worries about how you store credentials, and your tool also won't accidentally run on an unexpected day off.
Hi. IT here. My primary concern when reading this is how you're storing your credentials.
One thing that might stand out to them is if the process runs at exactly the same time every day. Not an issue if you manually start it every day. If you do have it scheduled to run, give it a random delay of up to 120 seconds? 

Anyway, you built it and it works, which is awesome.
> Do you think this could get me into shit with the IT department?

Have no idea on that one.

> ...using pyautogui to enter my login....

Prob'ly wouldn't be able to tell.  `pyautogui` basically just sends keyboard and mouse clicks to the computer.  Any program you are sending data to shouldn't be able to tell the difference.  The only diff I can think of off hand is speed of entry, but I doubt time-management software would check how fast you are typing and clicking.  You might overrun how fast the program can go, so you might need to add delays in your program.
Depends. Can an administrator tell what processes are running on your machine, like Python? Yes. Are they? Only they would know. You should have some sort of an acceptable use policy defining what you can and can't do with a company issued machine. Seek it out, ask your administrators/corporate policymakers, and stick to your requirements.
Timesheets are key for employees to get paid. Are you still reviewing their time sheet before it’s submit and approved?  If this script caused employee(s) to be overpaid or underpaid, IT is the least of your concerns.

If you pursue it, can you even install Python?  

If you are still moving forward, I’d say do your best to protect login and employee information. I would avoid saving any and all login information in the script. Make sure whoever is running the script must type in username, password, whatever is required.  Don’t save any of your crews information (email, emp IDs, etc) in the script in order to populate their timesheet (might make it tougher).
probably they don't even care lol (source: I was It department, just let me play WoW without interruptions)
If they look yes we can tell a script is running. The bigger question is will they care. 

I had a Python script that I could run that would reset up printers for me takes about 2 hours on a good day. The security team could tell it was running and called me about it, turns out the company has a policy that all software and complex scripts need to be approved by a committee.
Hi. Cybersecurity person here. Can we? Yes…depending on the endpoint logging in place. Do we typically have other more pressing matters like why this web form isn’t sanitized? Also yes…very much yes.
Depends on the IT Team, you work at a print shop, probably not. You work at a large technical company, possibly.   


Worst comes to worse, they'll ask you not to use it anymore. At least, thats what I did when I found users doing this while I was working the SOC.
It's unlikely that they have a system in place that will automatically detect that you're using Pyautogui or other automation tool to fill out timesheets. Even ignoring obfuscation and detection prevention measures building a system to detect automations would be far more technically complicated than any increase in value to the product. 

While it's probable that someone could prove that something strange was going on by analyzing many sessions of log data, they'd have to be looking for something strange in your interactions with a pretty boring system for them to uncover the fact that there is very little time variance between your sessions. 

On an unrelated note if you're doing web automation you're going to get a lot more mileage out of using a dedicated tool like Selenium instead of Pyautogui. Image based interaction systems are notoriously flaky, any change to the site layout or theme, or even how your browser renders the page will have a real chance to break your scripts.
I'd recommend using Task Scheduler (on Windows) which will allow you to run the script under your user identity, provided your PC is switched on. That way you won't need to worry about logging in to your pc, nor need to be there physically.
Hi, CISSP, ISSA senior member, pen-tester, and 10 year Python coder here.  The answer is yes, we can. That is if your InfoSec dept is worth a damn.

We usually don’t care if you automate logins but we do watch you more closely because of it.

There are many ways for your company to be on your machine watching every process, every keystroke. But just analysis of logs with something like Splunk can spot nearly all bots pretty easily.
SysAdmin here, unless management tells us to hawk you we don't give a shit
Don’t the web server logs show the client type - though I suppose you might be able to manually specify the client type in the request prior to sending it out. And alter the times because someone might get suspicious that you’re always logging on at roughly the same times. 

Also is there no way or avoiding the password - oauth token or some other approach?
You would have to ask them. I \*strongly\* recommend asking them. I say this as someone who has regular pitched battles with an IT department over trying to enhance productivity with automation - If you're sneaking around the back of your IT department, you're doing something wrong. Contact them, show your proof of concept, ask about security implications and how you can do this automation consistent with their security.
I'd only have a problem if you were storing passwords in plaintext. You can get passwords from keepass using this by the look of it. https://pypi.org/project/pykeepass/
Decent Python developer. Stuck working in IT. They can’t tell. IT folks are too dull.
Depends on if they have any 3rd party software installed like crowdstrike or actually looking at the type of logs in a potential siem
I make tools like this for a job now. I moved from IT to a business unit to start writing stuff like this. Typically I would just not automate the login step if there wasn't a secure way to pull and pass credentials and without ITs help you probably don't. I'd have it launch and wait for login before kicking off doing work. Your 20 minutes is now 2. it could be zero but IT probably won't care now while they absulutly should care if your pw is in a file and plain text somewhere, even in code or bundled in to an exe or something. all bad. You might see if HR or your boss cares you aren't checking timesheets anymore too, but if not your probably golden.

IT will know your running python and may have policies about that. I once worked at a software company that had a rule forbidding automation unless you were a developer for our product. it happens and it's stupid, but its not a hill to die on. depending on their logging they will know you have pyautogui and probably when you installed and updated it but maybe not that you are actually using it.. many tools can capture what files are being touched by running programs so they could.. they probably won't ever look to see your using it if they can though. They are very unlikely to know what pyautogui is actually doing except that certain things happen when its running since the program doesn't touch this software or other files itself.
When I worked for a college, I was responsible for administering student surveys that utilized a third party website. I had tasks to perform that would take 15 to 20 minutes per form to fill out online. As you can imagine, that process was tedious and wasn't something I looked forward to doing. 

I decided to automate the process using Python and Selenium. Selenium lets you click buttons and populate fields on web forms. As far as the website was concerned, except for the speed, it was me manipulating the web form. Automating that tedious process reduced the time required to fill out each web form from 15 to 20 minutes to a little more than 2 minutes. And on top of all that, the bonus for me was that I could walk away from my computer while it was running and could either do something else or just take a break.
The API that python is using is probably indistinguishable from what a browser would be sending so I'd say you are safe from detection. How secure it is is another matter, however
As long as the script isn't interacting with any other user's data or PII, and is exclusively inputting timesheet data, then I wouldn't mind whatsoever. If you're already inputting that data into a spreadsheet for example, and this is just a formality of submitting that data, then more power to you. 

If I saw it running when you're not supposed to be there however, that opens a whole new can of worms. Questions like "what else is this user automating and how does that interact with PII/PHI, how many users if any has this been distributed to," etc.
They’d be able to tell from the user agent sent by the script if they looked in their web logs. They should be routinely doing this.
You should be able to set it to one that matches the browser they’d expect.
It’s probably in your acceptable use policy that you don’t do this.

Selenium web driver with a prompt to enter your password would be much better.
Either that or pass the password as a parameter from the command line for your existing one when you run it.
If this was me, I’d raise it with the IT teams Manager and show them what I’m doing and get an internal sign off.
Here I am pretty sure everyone has local environment variables set with passwords of some kind.
Hi, don't store your credentials inside the script, there is a library that can access your OS password and use it without the need to hardcode it. I remember looking into this but never really using it, but I know it's possible.
Jokes on you.  My company still uses carbon paper.  IT can barely detect a freaking email.
Call me crazy here, but you are solving the wrong problem.

You are automating a task that you haven't been asked to automate, so you can give your employer 20 extra minutes of your time that they have asked you to use to do that task.

If you want to stop filling the timesheets, then let them know or show them that it is a waste of your time.
The insanity that is our work system. 

Utilizing dozens of tools to amplify your productivity ... expected

Writing your own tool to free yourself up ... not sure

I mean at the end of the day they are paying you to meet standard output (roughly). If your skills allow you to do the same with less time then that makes you simply more efficient. 

The moronic expectation is that you're going to take your new skills and do more for the same pay so that the company profits. Despite you investing your own time and effort into developing the skill, LOL.
Why don't you specifically request an API key?
I doubt they can tell if they're not actively looking for suspicious behaviour.  It's probably fine as long as you always still manually run your script to log in.  That's just breaking IT policies and insecure (hard coding in your password somewhere other than a password manager).  

But it's Gross Misconduct if you get caught and you're using the script (e.g. via a cron job or other scheduling) to log in when you aren't.  So it's on you.
As someone who uses Python to scrape major websites on the regular, you may benefit from some level of human masking. I don't know enough `pyautogui` to recommend things analogous to expected conditions, but you can mock human typing speed fairly easily with keyboards on a basic `random() / 6` sleep delay for each keystroke.
The short answer is no they can't without any "invasive software" installed on your machine.
No.
Not sure about IT, but with your boss/employer... it's potentially seen as a disregard for a level of supervision you are expected to attend to.
IT Security here. If your workplace has stuff like EDR's installed in workstations, make sure your app doesn't attempt to login several times by accident. Don't make it do anything sketchy like using system32 binaries that are rarely used. Don't mess with the registry and don't create too many scheduled tasks. That way you won't likely raise any alerts.

I would also suggest to store your credentials safely and not keep them hard coded in your script. Maybe encrypt them ? Or not storing them in the machine at all? If someone managed to log into your PC that would be a security risk. Edit: I just read that the company uses the same password for everyone so I guess having it is ok. I don't think it's a good practice at all but they don't seem to mind. Other than that, if security looked at auth logs, nothing unusual would show up other than perhaps the time. If you login at the very same time every day I would become quite suspicious of you. If you can make the script log you in at different times that would be better. Since the script likely only inputs keystrokes and clicks, security would not see you login with any odd protocols.
If you use a webpage then it is technically possible. Specifically, if they track your mouse movements and keyboard strokes they can tell if a human is operating them (this is part of how certain captchas work). Whether or not they ARE doing it is another question
Yeah I would remove the login portion and just automate your review if that is ethical and won’t get you fired.
It depends on how they built their system. Some systems send even the position of your mouse on the button "Login", the speed of typing on the keyboard and speed of mouse, if mistakes were made and some words deleted and inserted again... 
I mean, I think you should firstly do some reverse engineering on what data is sent when every operation is done.

If you are doing it from a browser, it is pretty simple using the dev tools, if it is a software, it is harder to do because the data would be encrypted and I guees you would need to use a proxy and install a custom CA certificate, but the software may not trust that CA and it may not work.

If you are going to store the credentials on your PC, I would suggest to encrypt them once the login is done and manually decrypt them when you need to login. You may use GPG. You will decrypt the credentials manually using your private key and the python script will encrypt it  using your public key once it is logged. Ofc, there are other solutions.
If they use something like sysmon, then probably yes.
Why not ask them?
So to throw my 2 cents in, chances are IT won't see it till something goes wrong. Connected to you or not if they do a sweep and find a program on your machine autopopulating your credentials, it's not going to look good. Also automating anything that has to do with payroll also won't look good to HR and accounting. It doesn't matter if you still verify it, at first glance and thier first take on the situation is the worst case scenario, fraud.

Now that being said, you're better off writing a script that calculates the time it takes over a quarter to process payroll. Number of clicks, entries, load and lag times... Track data. You then compile that data and present it to your boss as justification for replacing or upgrading the existing system. A 1 week snap shot won't be enough, you need a quarter or more and then out it into fiscal year numbers. You can also include any errors the system creates.

If there's something that doesn't work at your company, find ways to improve the system, not make your life easier but improve the job/company.
As long as you "manually" trigger the scripts by logging into your workstation, go right ahead.
Sortve? I know what you're saying but, really?
Yeah timesheets fuckin suck Lmaooo
I’d caution that while you can do a lot to fly under the radar with IT, if there is a compromise as a result of your actions and you were found to not only be in violation of company policy, but taking measures not to be discovered, it’s pretty much instant termination. And depending on where you live, the company could even try to hold you financially/legally responsible for damages. 

An unexpected audit or random inspection could result in similar. Work with your IT to determine the best way to solve your problem while flagrantly undermining company policy.
I also made a script in selenium to automate making timecards. It pulls from a SharePoint database that has all our project codes and finds the corresponding billing codes and charges the them on the correct day. This is normally a time consuming task. I haven't asked IT but I haven't seen any complaints and also haven't stored any login credentials in the script itself, those are always input variables. It also only runs when I execute it.
Is a desktop application or website? If it's a website selenium or cypress would be a way better option than pyautogui and an even better option is to lean how the auth works and use api calls only to fill this out (requests lib).
Windows admin.

&#x200B;

Probably not :D

&#x200B;

Depends on how you have implemented it.  


And depends on the tools they use on their end. 

&#x200B;

Other things I'd like at is the suspeciously "on the second" Login seconds.. I'd randomise the time for login a little.
Be careful, depending on the company and there IT security policies, this could be cause for immediate termination. My work has a zero tolerance policy, you can’t download anything or insert any external storage devices. No exceptions.
I feel the pain you speak about. 

The work around my team did was add a 20 minute activity claiming “making time sheet entries” Management was not happy with that and called for a brief presentation, after 5 excruciating minutes, the TMS vendor was let go and we were allowed to build our own little package to manage time, activities and billing.

Regarding your particular question, depends upon the IT team really. How good are they?
It depends entirely on what tools your IT dept are using to manage desktops, and more importantly, how much they care. They could more or less detect anything you try to do if they care enough. I don’t mean individual deep dive, but rather how they configure their tools, and what would trigger a warning or alert based on their criteria. 

It’s entirely possible no one would ever notice. In fact, unless you work somewhere (or that has an IT director) that hates it’s employees both inside and outside of IT then it’s more than likely no one would notice or care. However it’s absolutely possible to detect this without human intervention and alert an employee to investigate. 

As someone who works in IT (and uses python extensively) I would still advise against this specific idea. A lot of these policies aren’t there just to be annoying for end users. It’s almost always a pretty bad idea to have your machine automatically login for a number of reasons that could impact not only your company, but you personally as well. It’s really not that hard to do either. 

Alternatively I’d ask your it department if they support any type of passwordless login (such as a yubikey), and if they don’t then politely suggest (or have your boss do it) that they look into it. 

Just my 2 cents.
IT probably not, InfoSec probably yes.
Good IT with good monitoring tools will recognize unusual speed in the your entry.
Is this a web or win32 app? Leaving your code on the company computer might get noticed more so than using it.
Hey, IT here. This one op. 

The number one giveaway would be the script running on a day you're not supposed to be there.
I use this process to do my time sheet. I use it weekly and have to fill out three ( yes you heard ) different timesheets in three different apps.

I enter the hours per day as the first 5 args and then it prompts me for each set of credentials ( yes each app has a different password ) as it goes through the different apps.

Been doing it for years, no issues.
OP can prompt for credentials first at the top of the script. Then use/re-use them when needed later on in the code. IT won't be pissed because you are not persisting credentials in clear text (which is a no-no). 

And use something like getpass to mask your password input so snooping eyes don't get you p0wned.
Came in here to say this. Automate what takes time, not the steps that you do easily.
<>
This is a huge part of learning to automate effectively. Start by automating only what you need to. As long as you follow object oriented programming concepts, you can expand in the future. In the meantime, you are still saving yourself some work.
You know it's in plain text, inside code. The hackers will never look there!
Don't worry I'm not storing the credentials. I'm using voice-to-text to yell my credentials inside the cafe.
I am working on an app that requires storing credentials, can you point me in the right direction? Someone mentioned environment variables, us that a good option?
This brings up a good point did OP out the password in a Secure folder?
probably in environment variables
To be safe the program should ask for password when it's started and don't save it anywhere just keep it in the RAM.
webcam+OCR to read a post-it note
Truthfully, hash it, then store the hash
When I automated a login at work using Python a few years ago, I discovered that my credentials were already in the Windows credential store and figured out how to read that with Python. I didn't know a lot back then, but I did figure storing my password on the code would be a bad idea. I assume reading from the credential store only worked because I'd already logged in to Windows.
They would still have to go looking for it, unless the software they use is monitoring and logging exe firing and then alerting to patterns.
Then the IT department finds out that the login time obeys perfectly normal distribution with standard deviation of 5-sigma. They conclude that cannot be from human, and only possible with the use of /dev/random, and thus it must be a bot.
[deleted]
Agreed. It's not just about network traffic as most have mentioned. IT potentially monitors PC processes too.
Python is installed on the machine yea. 

I am definitely reviewing the timesheets still. I would have to be super confident in my program to let it do it's thing. Actually the final excel sheet it spits out is the least of my problems, the issue is that the timekeeping software is so slow it takes forever to navigate through. I had to add a ton of sleep commands in for it to actually work, and even then I'm sure it'll fail at times if the system is running poorly.
Not sure why downvoted.
Sneaking around the back of IT seems like a bad idea on multiple levels.
Indeed
I’m guessing they are actually using a real browser, just automating the keyboard/mouse inputs.
Knowing which client is being used is usually done trough the user agent header, which is really easy to spoof.
This! Other than BAU support tasks, IT is supposed to be a business enabler. Projects like these challenge them to get better governance on items not scoped yet. But all this depends on how the company treats IT... as a basic support function or as a business enabler.
He is trying to save 10 minutes. Not have hours and days of issues.
But then don't you have to store the KeePass password in plaintext?
Forbidding automation? Wtf?
And if you didn't want to use the API you could just use something like selenium or beautifulsoup to just automate actions through your actual browser which would be indistinguishable unless monitoring processes on you workstation.

Storing creds in plain text is the only real issue I see.
Yea I agree with you here, for my sake I just find it an annoying little task I have to do every day. But it is definitely stupid. Not only do we pay for the software that she ups be doing my job, the excel sheet I make is then opened by someone else in payroll afterwards.
> If you want to stop filling the timesheets, then let them know or show them that it is a waste of your time.

Hmm.  For me that really depends on the company and the people in charge.  Some places I've worked at, you're a fool if you go asking permission to do something rather than planning how to ask forgiveness if someone gets mad after the fact.  I was at one company where I couldn't even tell you how far up I'd have to go to get someone to approve me writing a simple script that took a few hours to write.  And you could go all the way to the top without finding a single person who actually GAF that some stupid process was wasting an hour of my time every day.  Not like that wasted hour came out of their paycheck.  But I did care...
Yea, that mindset can backfire real quick.

It's sometimes better to just make your own solution and keep quiet.

Just depends on your leadership (or lack thereof).
Are you giving your employer 20 extra minutes of your time or are you giving yourself 20 extra minutes to take a nap and/or browse reddit?

It would be the latter for me.
In a lot of companies (and in my work for a local government!) filling out the timesheet correctly is how people get paid, and business units get paid correctly for work completed. If the road crew replace a catch basin for the stormwater crew, they've gotta pay the road crew for time and equipment (this is actually, if I'm right, required by our state's law!) that timesheet's gotta get filled out correctly.

If OP is having trouble with it, I guarantee other supervisors are. In a well-run company (I admit, a rare thing) doing this in cooperation with IT can result in getting everybody's job done faster and better.
Are you assuming that every internal application has been set up with API access and/or OAuth and that the administrators have even ever thought about setting that up for people.

that's gonna depend on where you work.
This is the correct answer. IT, as a rule, don't really give a shit what you're doing as long as it's not actively fucking with our workload. However, part of our workload is grabbing logs from employee machines in response to requests from management or HR. If IT have any reason to go digging into your machine, they'll almost certainly be able to identify that *something* isn't quite right.
They'll say no. Never ask them. "It's easier to ask forgiveness than to get permission." - Grace Hopper
I was thinking you could have the first step of the program be to input the password, then it's not stored anywhere and the script can go nuts. Still requires you to manually fire up the script and type in the password, showing the user is interacting, but then automating the boring stuff.  Sounds like win win to me.
You mean I can’t work on Saturdays and Sundays because I love work? Lol
I don't disagree, but I fail to see the relevance of "object oriented programming concepts" here. You can have nice and expandable coffee with OOP (and you can have OOP balls of mud that can't be touched)
[deleted]
In most competitive hacking, the very first thing that everyone does after getting on the box, is to run a script that literally searches for 'password' in every file on the system.
Still more secure than a Post-it under the keyboard though
Try the keyring package. It’s a wrapper for windows’ own credential manager , and Mac keychain.
Solutions like this are tough because it leads to the bad rap all of our departments have. "IT is stupid and just creates road blocks" "dev is stupid because they mismanage creds" You can already see the snarky comments in this thread.

At the very least, create a service account that is scoped to just the app. Limits blast radius of oops moments.

There are some bandaid-y solutions like encoding your password or obfuscating in your environment variables. Depending on what you're worried about, it helps a bit OR in the bad actor scenario, absolutely useless.

Best case scenario - have your app created in AWS and use secrets manager. AWS is even nice enough to give you example code on how to pull the secrets. This will involve a more technically mature IT shop and a budget. This is how I run all my python scripts that automate various IT jobs.
I think the answer is to hash it or something similar.
No longer wish this content to be here due to the site changes
Make sure to mark it as hidden so nobody finds it.
Lol yea it is stored as plain text inside a variable. I am nowhere near being a competent coder, I just happened to know enough python to get myself in trouble. 

However! I'll give you this as a rebuttal, the timesheets tracker has a default password that is used by literally everyone in the company to enter their time. It is their windows login (which auto populates at the login screen) for a username, and then this default password that I am entering. Obviously the company isn't too concerned about security for this particular app.
This doesn't work as the client
[deleted]
Note to self: Use another distribution for random number generation.
Loosen that SD to 2 sigma.  You’re still getting away with it but sloppy enough to be off ITs radar
Turning up to work is frowned upon by HR. They just want the work done without giving you a penny.
Instead of using `sleep`s, try using a loop to wait for something to be visible, with a timeout so you don't end up looping indefinitely. Some RPA tools like UiPath or Blue Prism have some good documentation covering different options on what to wait for (e.g. things to (dis)appear on the screen, screen area changes, field contents changing, fields being empty, etc).
just don't store scripts with credentials in the cloud without any encryption / password; even storing in zip with long password would be great (but better in keepass)
Most of the time you thinking you're behind IT's back, you're just walking into a motion-sensor spotlight.
It really depends on the culture in the company and in the IT in the company. 

&#x200B;

My guess is that 70-80% of IT department won't notice and won't care if they do. Officially maybe if the IT Sercuity officer or some manager was asked about it they might have to make a policy or enforce a policy. But the day to day service desk people won't.

&#x200B;

Esp as the OP has stated that the password is a default password and the same for all accounts. That's a huge no/no and tells me they don't give a shit.
Half of our work wouldn’t get done if we didn’t sneak around IT.
Thanks for adding that - that with be a clear give away to anyone looking through logs.
In my field (local government) IT is often a key player in things like compliance with records laws. And since this touches payroll and money, it's got a bunch of extra ways to create massive trouble if things go wrong.
Those 10 minutes a day add up quickly, especially if a bunch of people can can save 10 minutes per day per person.
No, keepass can unlock in a few ways or combination of:

* Password
* Windows account
* Key file

And some others. 

Once the database is unlocked, you can configure it to suit your needs as to when it locks automatically again, or not.
You'd be surprised.  Some IT depts lock down your PC so much you probably couldn't even install Python without hacking around their rules.
Someone probably copy pasta'd a script and broke something expensive.
I've faced this issue before.

Had to fill a weekly timesheet, so I did. I took my sweet time filling it up and chose the most inconvenient times to fill it up.

Eventually, the leadership was asked to not make me fill the timesheets anymore. I wonder why.

And happy cake day!
I am not, but I'm assuming that a lot of external products that companies use have the possibility of setting up either an API key or a robot user; sometimes they even allow you to get a personal access token straight from the UI; but if someone is not a SWE they may even forget it as the most obvious option.

Edit: if it's a browser application Selenium is also an option
[deleted]
Probably the most sensible option.
Set the variable to null on exit for extra safety
Pause for sudo. 

Run ahead for an acceptable time frame.
Open source is safest, after all.
One time I used the Twitter API in a class. A few years later a helpful Twitter bot let me know I put the key in GitHub lol
Well no, it's probably not in the most common situations. Physical intrusions vs just getting hacked?
physical access to workspace is actually way harder and riskier for malicious actors. unless they already knew such a post-it exists, no one is going through all the trouble.
Disagree
Thanks, I will look into your suggestion!
Bruce, you're great.
The whole point of password hashes is they’re one way.
OCR software running through a webcam pointed at a post-it note with the password on it, in a box hidden inside OP's desk.
Lmao. So what you’re saying is… this might be more secure? Jk

I would just automate everything beyond the login. Login then run your script.
Honestly it sounds like you could just have it ask for your password once for user input and store it as a var . I'm guessing it's asking over and over again for each timecard you have to complete. Storing it as a var while only while the app is running shouldn't be an issue.
Sounds like it's not used as a password but more like an unrestricted access parameter. Not ideal from an application perspective, since there's no accountability on activity (anyone can log in as anyone else with no traceability) but that isn't OP's responsibility.

Until that changes from an organizational policy perspective, sounds like OP wouldn't need to restrict access to that parameter.

That said, good practice for such parameters would be to include them in a config rather than a variable. Some good considerations [here](https://martin-thoma.com/configuration-files-in-python/).
You can obfuscate using the base64 library. /s

EDIT: I made this comment sarcastic so people will stop thinking this is an actual suggestion.
If they decide their behavior is odd, the jig is already up.
Pyautogui can analyze the screen and wait for the dialogue boxes or whatever to load before clicking. OP is worried about IT finding his automation, asking them to install automation tools might not be ideal.
you wanna do what with my ass?
Whoever named that software really needs a raise
and if you are, that's probably the result of a lot of past problems right where that spotlight is. A lot of rules are written in blood and pain, and IT is certainly no exception.
Then you need to fix things. We're trying to negotiate a lot of those issues at my job - it's tough, but if it can be made to work, it'll be worth it.
TBH, this sounds like a communication problem, not an IT problem
For sure, selenium is super powerful and would be indistinguishable from regular human interfacing browser use. It's obviously more of a hack way of doing things than getting proper API access, but there is often a lot of red tape around that. Sometimes it's easier just to get something done instead of going through the proper channels.

I'm an ask for forgiveness, not permission kind of guy.
Pretty much everyone *knows* someone who got fired for breaching some minor, inconsequential rule that nobody cares about. 

The vast majority of those people got fired for the same reason Al Capone got busted for tax evasion. Nobody actually gave a fuck about the minor shit, it was just the easiest thing they could make stick.
[deleted]
Ahh...the good ol' strategy of security through obscurity and prayer
> You've got nothing to fear if you've got nothing to hide
Yes, but _this_ situation appears to be about employee hours and likely on a machine at the workplace. It seems more likely someone would rummage around the office than hack into the machine.
Sure, then you hash the input and compare them (I think)
I guess they want to automate the login so they don't have to be physically there to log in themselves!
base64 is as good as the original plaintext
this provides 0 benefit over plaintext. not even a good temporary solution, or any kind of solution at all.
Base64 encoding is easily detectable, and as easy to decode as `echo <base64 encoded string> | base64 -d`. I'm honestly not sure what benefits it provides even in obfuscation. Base64 encoding values is a way to make those values easily transferrable to other services, and stored by an application.
Thinking somethings odd and having it confirmed are different things. A +/- of 15 min would make this behavior indistinguishable from a person.
IT is a great field to practice "learn from others' mistakes". 

Being plugged into IT forums has saved my ass a few times.
> I'm an ask for forgiveness, not permission kind of guy.

I understand, but if you ask the right way you still have plausible deniability ;)
There is no obscurity when storing it in plain sight, so nothing to worry about, right?
In order to compare them (stored hash and hashed password) OP would need to enter the password again which defeats the purpose of automating it
[deleted]
Well, there is one benefit -- it can't be shoulder-surfed by nearly as many people.

Most people can see and remember `hunter2` but not `b'aHVudGVyMg=='`.  Moreso for slightly obfuscated passwords...`@mberMustang18` vs `b'QG1iZXJNdXN0YW5nMTg='`. 

Now, if it's a dictionary-word password with a digit, ROT13 might actually trip some people up enough to think that it's the real password, at least enough to get the account locked before figuring it out. `hunter2` wvs `uhagre2`.  

Doesn't help so much if it shows up on a screenshare and people can just print-screen it though.
Hence the..

>AGAIN, NOT A GOOD PERMANENT SOLUTION.

Anyone worth their salt can spot and copy/paste/decode base64. This is just a temporary "while you sort shit out" kind of deal. Like another commenter said, it'd be best to log in normally and automate the task itself, not the login.
Yeah, I wanted to make it abundantly clear in my comment that this is *not* a good idea. Temporary *at best.* This would only be a way to stop someone from looking at the code over OP's shoulder and memorizing the password. Buuuuut, that's about it.
just sing a song about it on social media
Mb, it was mostly a guess on my part
Don't worry someone will figure out how to pass in a password through a bash wrapper or autohotkey. Totally not speaking from first hand experience...
I’m saying that this is not even a temporary solution. there is no benefit to doing this at all. if you are going to have it in base64 you may as well have it in plaintext.
You made that abundantly clear. It does work for shoulder surfing, so there is some kind of benefit.
Sorry, I didn't explain what I meant in the above comment.

I'm assuming OP is writing/running this code at their own computer. If they encode the password, it'll make it more difficult for someone to look over their shoulder and just memorize the password. Most people can't spot-copy `Tm9Db3B5UGFzdGVBbGxvd2Vk`
Okay, good haha. I get why you (and many others) would be concerned, especially if anyone thought I was saying this was a solution.
Still a bad suggestion. the same time investment can be used to either do this the correct way (keychain, environment variables, whatever) or to just move the plaintext into another file (still a terrible solution, but even harder to read off a screen and less complex.)
No, I get it. Sometimes it feels like no one understands what you're saying no matter how many disclaimers you add.
Again, all good points. I honestly didn't expect anyone to take the idea seriously, especially with how I threw disclaimers all over it. I could've saved myself a lot of trouble just by throwing a /s on there, couldn't I?
I'd be hard-pressed to find truer words than this
You're in a thread where an inexperienced person is asking for advice. Don't jokingly give bad advice that may make them think that they fixed something while accomplishing nothing without making it exceedingly clear that they should never do the thing you are saying.
Honestly, I'm just going to shut up at this point.
