PyPI will require 2FA by the end of 2023

tl;dr:

> PyPI will require all users who maintain projects or organizations to enable one or more forms of two-factor authentication (2FA) by the end of 2023.
Curious. What happened? 

Either way, I think it is a good policy
This is outrageous. Providing 2FA as an option is best practice, not REQUIRING it. I will remind this current administration that the Supreme Court has continuously said all computer code is considered free speech and is protected by the First Amendment. I’m officially switching to Laravel, fuck Py.
That is most excellent news.
I think this is ok
Well… can't they first stop logging user IP and information?
Forcing people to use 2FA implemented that way is a bad move.  Hopefully we're able to install packages without PyPI, directly from git repositories. An email can be a second factor - just use it.
So it looks that Markus Unterwaditzer was right :)
We have seen several supply chain attacks on NPM and PyPI recently.

Moreover, PSF recently was subpoenaed to provide details on some PyPI users to US government. They announced they were going to hire a security engineer in the same statement. This may or may not be related to the move.

Regardless of that, I also think it’s a good policy.
> What happened?

Well, last year they rolled out the 2FA requirement for accounts that had publishing privileges on the highest-download-count packages, on grounds that a compromise of such an account would be a huge risk, and they said they weren't yet enforcing 2FA for *all* package-publishing accounts because they didn't have the resources to handle the support load that would bring.

But it looks like they've continued working on it and now have some additional resources and so are expanding the 2FA requirement.

Meanwhile it is extremely unlikely that any recent news or incident provoked this, since it's not the sort of thing you do on a sudden whim.
>PSF recently was subpoenaed to provide details on some PyPI users to US government

Could a 2FA requirement make it more difficult to maintain a package anonymously?
so with 2fa PSF can't access PyPI user info?
Depends on the 2FA. If it requires a phone number, or an authenticator app that can tell who you are via other means, then yeah. If it's just a TOTP code that can be used with any authenticator app then no.
2FA makes malicious takeover of legitimate users & packages more difficult.
PyPI does not support any phone number based 2FA or non standards based authenticator apps. We don't have any interest in having people's phone numbers unless absolutely required and the phone number based systems are all very insecure anyways.  


We support TOTP and FIDO/U2F/WebAuthN tokens. This is all privacy preserving and safe (though we recommend the hardware tokens since they're also phishing resistant which TOTP is not).
oh that i understand but what has the subpoena to do with it?
Just an indication that it's an actual high value attack target.
got it thanks
