Nooby question about extending classes and app design
I recently started learning python with the source code to a bot I found (nothing harmful or malicious in any way).  Anyways, the design of the bot I think is kinda poor.

Basically, everthing is encapsulated into one big class.  So say, if I wanted to make a second bot to do a different purpose, I'd have to remove everything added in and add new stuff back in, then if the main bot related code needed an update it would need to be done in all others.

I did a similar bot with actionscript before, and was able to keep the socket/reception into a template class, instantiate two other classes, and have methods called from the template as data was received from the server.

My real question here is, what would be an ideal way to mimick that with python? I've tried searching around a bit but haven't found anything with very concrete examples (I seem to learn best by viewing something, playing with it rather than reading a bunch of gibberish).  Anyone have any good resources for learning about this or any helpful advice in setting up the program structure? 

Basically, I'd need a class that handles the data coming in and out that would be extended.  So in the main class, if the trigger for a new player was found, it would call a method/function for newPlayer(), doing nothing in the main class while the class extending would be able to do something specific with it.

Heh, I'm not good at explanation, so sorry in advance if this is confusing.  I am equally confused  after thinking about all this.

---

Edit - Didn't realize I posted this from an alt account >.>
I don't know if i fully understand, so i am just gong to start typing and see if it is close to what you are looking for


    class BaseDoer(object):
        def connect(self, host, port):
            #create a  connection
        def send(self, message):
            # send messages to our connection
        def handle_stuff(self, stuff):
            raise Not ImplementedError


    class FooDoer(BaseDoer):
        def handle_stuff(self, stuff):
            #do some foo type stuff here

    class BarDoer(BaseDoer):
        def handle_stuff(self, stuff):
            #do some Bar type stuff here


    def give_me_some_doer(Doer):
         doer = Doer()
         doer.connect('127.0.0.1', 8080)
         doer.send("Hello")
         doer.handle_stuff('stuff')


    give_me_some_doer(FooDoer)
    give_me_some_doer(BarDoer)


wow the word doer is really weird
r u looking for something like Factory Method used in software engineering?
see the think in python book.
may help u
Yes, I believe so.  Basically, the class handling the connection will parse everything that comes in to the client.  Such as receiving 0x05 could tell you "a new player entered", so you would call newPlayer(), which does nothing in this class.

However, in another class , maybe one that just greets the player, would use this to send them a hello message.

There could also be another that just loads info stored about the player, and when they enter grabs the data or something.

The point is, I will have about 4 different bots, so these other classes I want to just be able to import, instantiate them and let it roll from there, as I did with action script version.

So pretty much, when you instantiate one of the imported classes, they are what start everything.  No need to touch the main socket stuff again except possibly to add future updates from the game.

Again sorry, really horrible at explaining this :D Thanks very much though, I think what you have given is prob what I'm looking for, just gonna play with it a bit.
I'm not quite sure, but I don;t think so (knowing factory in php).  What I'm trying to understand in python is how extensible classes and method/function over rides work.

I have the concept in my head of how to do something, but no concrete examples.  Lets says you have this:

MainClass:
     Every class extends this for new feature
     Handles socket data

Class the extends MainClass:
     When subroutine is called in MainClass is called, the method in this class over rides it.


