New to python, and I wrote a crypto trade bot with a novel strategy, and takes a small fee when trades are profitable. Wondering if it’s possible show it’s not malicious while still keeping the source hidden.
Merry Christmas!

As the title explains, I’ve written a crypto trading bot that uses Bittrex Api to make trades that employs a novel strategy. I’d like to be able to publicly distribute an executable once the kinks are worked out, but it would require the user to input their api keys. When profitable trades are made, it is programmed to send a yet to be determined percentage of the profit to a wallet that I control.  

I want to know if it’s feasible for me to demonstrate that the bot doesn’t do anything suspicious with the user’s api keys or steal all of their funds, while still ensuring that the code can’t be copied or changed to disable the fee. I’m still new to coding, and I’m not so sure how to go about this. Is this a case of wanting to have my cake and eat it too?

Let me hear your thoughts, and thank you in advance for your help


Not possible. Also, wouldn't a bunch of people using your strategy break the strategy?  You should just use the strategy to make money for yourself and investors who buy in.
I am more concerned that you(not you in particular, anyone on the Internet) have no idea what you are doing and my cryptos are going down the drain, than afraid of you stealing my money.

There are very few good ideas that no one had before, so the chances that anyone would have a new idea are quite slim. Also, if your idea is so good, you are better off making money of it yourself, than getting scraps from other people's earnings.

The value you might bring is not in the "secret sauce" for your bot. You should try to sell that value, whatever that is.
> wouldn't a bunch of people using your strategy break the strategy

I think the users of the software *are* investors. I imagine the idea is to reduce trust required from investors.
> There are very few good ideas that no one had before

"An economist found a 100 dollar bill on the pavement. He didn't pick it up because by the efficient market hypothesis someone else must have already picked it up."

> you are better off making money of it yourself

This depends on one's risk appetite, the ROI and access to funds. Hedge funds have investors for a reason...
No one trusts a program they install, give their bank credentials to, and it buys and sells things automatically on their behalf
I'm not saying you shouldn't pick 100 dollar bills off the ground. I'm saying I will not pick every piece of paper off the ground hoping I will get a 100 dollar bill. 

OP should go and implement his idea, I encourage everyone to be creative. I'm just skeptical that his, or anyone's idea is good until I see results or something to convince me. Hedge funds are based on trust and a long history of success for a reason ... ;)
I agree (pedantic point: what about software like this: https://www.auctionsniper.com/ for ebay).

It's probably not a *good* realisation of a fund with investment, but it is nevertheless is equivalent to a fund with investors. 
Is auction sniper a fund with investors?
No. It indicates an example of a willingness for people to provide login details for a service that trades on your behalf and has access to sometimes considerable funds.

If you want something more analogous to an "investment fund with trades carried out on the behalf of individuals" you might look at the gambling space with things like: http://sportsbettingmastertipster.com/sure-win-accumulator  .

Many niche data feed providers (amount of oil in a particularly location etc etc) are perhaps analogous.
I can't tell if that is software you download, or if you ship someone money and they bet for you. The latter is more like what I am thinking.

With the ebay sniper, 1) there's no secret algorithm and 2) it only has access to Paypal, so if you get ripped off Paypal will help (and the ripper offer is not ultimately anonymous). Op's idea is different on both of those important points. They'll have better luck (I imagine) developing trust through relationships and not being anonymous.

Like with the stock market. You don't sell trading bots. You develop them and then get people to use you as their broker or whatever.

Right off the bat for me I see: why is OP not just making bank right now on their own? Why are they trying to get competitors.who are paying a one time fee?
> Right off the bat for me I see: why is OP not just making bank right now on their own? Why are they trying to get competitors.who are paying a one time fee?

So my guess is that he is volume limited and think other people won't trust him with their money, so the reasoning is that you get other people to trade themselves in exchange for giving him a share - and you implement this as some sort of "trusted code". I agree with you that this probably isn't a good idea - just that the motivations behind it aren't intrinsically bad: have a trading strategy where people can trust you less with their money. There is also an incentive to make as much money as possible from a trading strategy before someone else gets there - this is an argument for getting external investors, it kind of depends on your model of how trading strategies leak.

I imagine they view their competitors as only able to trade in exchange for giving them a share of the money: the code would act as a trusted black box. I am not sure how achievable this is.

I agree that he probably won't get investors this way, and I wouldn't "invest" in this manner. Nevertheless... people are willing to do things that I would class as a terrible idea!

In general, I think the world might be better if the trust barrier required for trading strategies was lowered (i.e. you were able to use someone else's trading strategies without having to know so much about your counterparty). Etherium offers one ways of achieving this (I think - I'm not to sure about the exact details of how this works) one can hard code contracts into the external word and have them automatically be enforced without relying on reputation, contracts and the legal system. 

In practice the way that this trust problem is solved in other areas is that people work for hedge funds where they develop strategies: the hedge fund provides the trust you provide the knowledge.

As an aside I'm not sure this is actually *impossible* to do. 

There are solutions where you have a third party run and confirm they are running known good code for doing the trading and then have one party provide it with money and the other party provide it with trading instructions. I'm not sure if you can shoe horn this into ec2... I mean you can have public images and ec2 can be guaranteed to not be lying about the images I'm just unclear as there is an easy way to share this.

That you *can* construct such a solution does not mean that other people will trust you if your code is provable secure.

I actually tried to solve a similar problem myself in a different context: bank transaction information scraping. I wanted to share some of the code I wrote to scrape my bank transaction history in a way that other people could use it (and also so that I could accept scrapers written by other people without tearing my hair out). The solution I came up with was running the part that had secrets in its own docker container and the thing that did the scraping in another docker container and then having the user confirm / whitelist urls before use. The idea is that the "secrets / browser" component would be as small as possible and could be hand confirmed by users. I had the internet connection cut on the untrusted component. Having the browser component separated out from the secret component and only be able to talk to a *single* website might be even better.
