Antivirus packages or command line tools for python?
Hey r/python, 
I have a bit of a weird request. I’m working on a script that needs to have antivirus capabilities in some way. I know that ClamAV has antivirus capabilities but I’m worried that there could be something that ClamAV might miss. In doing some research ClamAV seems to be the only python library form to work with an AV. I ran across a script called MultiAV designed to do just what I need.... with a few hitches. It’s no longer developed, and it needs the command line versions pre-installed. So now I’m at a loss looking for command line AVs, (again besides just ClamAV) that I can use. Most AVs appear to have had a command line but it is either out of date (by several years) or no download link easily available. Anyone have any idea about where I should be looking (maybe there is a good subreddit to ask about the command line versions?) or what packages to try? I’m doing this script as a fun little project so I’d rather not dish out huge fees for a subscription to a web service to upload files to, and I obviously don’t have the manpower to develop my own AV engine with either heuristics or signatures. Anyone have any ideas or am I stuck with ClamAV?

TLDR;
Anyone know either a command line AV or python AV library I can use other than ClamAV?
Have you considered [virustotal](https://www.virustotal.com/en/documentation/public-api/#)?

MultiAV has a list of engines that all have a commandline version:

https://github.com/joxeankoret/multiav


I have, and they are a good idea/option.... except if I want to check multiple files at once since they limit checks to 4 every minute. If the script were to be applied to a folder, it would take a while to check just the folder and be much slower than any alternative system. I did consider the “premium” speed option on their site but wasn’t able to find any information on pricing without emailing and possibly adding myself to a marketing list in the process. I understand the need for rate-limiting but it just might not fit for my potential usage... I might need requests a bit faster than that
Ah, yes, i looked at that and it would work fine for me.... except I can’t find actual download links for the engine and it doesn’t appear that he packages the engines in his code, I think they have to be preinstalled, which leads me back to the issue of where to actually download said engines... Unless I missed something.
Out of curiosity - if the folder you're scanning is going to be filled with files that have a high likely hood of being malicious, you could try running them all through ClamAV - and only sending the ones not flagged to Virustotal.

Use case:

Folder with 10 files that have a high probability of being malicious - 8/10 are caught by ClamAV - the other 2 sent to Virustotal as a double-check.

Also - keep in mind - everything uploaded to Virustotal is made public. If you're scanning a work file server for example and have sensitive information within it, do know that it will be made public for everyone (Even malicious users) to see and get a hold of.
Thanks. That’s also partially why I’m not quite sold on using VirusTotal yet. That might work, I’m still open to other options as well if I have them though...
