Python at work
I work in a secure installation as on on-call engineer. Because of the security classification of the building I cannot  take in a laptop, phone, usb stick or any other recordable media apart from CD's.

There are windows-based computers with restricted internet access; large swathes of websites blocked and many brower plugins disabled. I also do not have the rights to install anything onto the system.

I'd like to practice my coding during my downtime but my options are limited. I'm going to check if http://repl.it/ works, but failing that are there any other options for me? 
Honestly... I'd just grab a book.  If they're that serious about security, they might take any attempt at circumventing the blocks they put in place as malicious activity.  Don't lose your Job for your hobbies.
portable python might be a good option, if you can download it onto the pc. It doesnt need to be installed on the machine as such (no modification of registry etc), just put it somewhere on the harddisk and run it. This is what i did at my old job until we got an official install of python xy.
Are nitrous.io or codio.com blocked?
I work half of my time in a secure installation.

The basis of security (for top secret projects) is that no information should get in or out of your facility.

Ask your supervisor if there is a way to set up a DMZ so  you can reference technical information.
I work in a secure building, but they let me bring my laptop in.  Unfortunatly I have not been able to find anything that works. Codecademy.com doesn't connect. Repl.it doesnt connect and Nitrous.io doesnt connect.  

If you are allowed to bring a book in, you could try and write your code in notepad but then how would you get it home? Can you email things, maybe you could email your .txt file to your personal email and try and run the code when you get home? While it isn't the greatest solution, it would make you a great code proof-reader.  

Have you asked your supervisor about it? Tell them it is part of an education program you are doing and maybe they would get you some additional permissions or connect you with the right IT guy who could install it on your comptuer for you. Maybe just reach out to the IT department and explain what you are looking for and see if they have any solutions?
You can rent a VPS from [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/?refcode=51b3610ef4e6) for $5 a month. Then you can drop a copy of web2py on there. 

Web2py has a built in IDE, debugger, basic SQL interface,  and example projects to get you started. 

It will be unlikely a freshly launched site with no real content will be blocked by your companies filters however if it is, you can just try spinning up another VM in a different data-center. 

http://web2py.com/

They even let you tinker with a version live through python anywhere (which also could be a viable solution)

https://www.pythonanywhere.com/try-web2py/

The documentation is pretty rich as well making it easy to get started. 

To be honest I'd just bring in a book if you're allowed it. It's tough to suggest things that may or may not be blocked.
Have you tried asking your security team about this? Maybe they can download a Python distribution for you, like one Anaconda? That seems to make the most sense, versus just randomly hitting a bunch of blocked websites and possibly raising suspicion.
You can download a portable python (http://portablepython.com/), burn it and copy the python dist in your workstation..
See if koding.com works. I used it for a bit, and if you can connect then that + a book might be your ticket.
If you have a JVM, perhaps try Jython? Most of the standard library is the same, and some of the Java<->Python interaction can be fun.
What about codepad.org ? 
Several people have pointed out Portable Python for getting a working Python environment to play with. I'm not sure if PP includes docs, but if it doesn't, you can [download the Python docs](https://docs.python.org/3/download.html) as HTML, PDF or EPUB and burn them onto the CD as well. Similar things might be available for many Python packages - e.g. [Numpy and Scipy docs](http://docs.scipy.org/doc/).
Just don't do it. Getting python on would be possible, but there are so many red flags here it's unreal. They clearly don't want you doing this, with so many restrictions. They clearly don't want you running unapproved executables. I really wouldn't be surprised with the level of security you are describing that they won't have some sort of logging that sends a notification as soon as you run a non-white listed app, and get canned that same day.
Have you tried the interactive interpreter on https://www.python.org/shell/ ?

Alternatively there's also brython: http://www.brython.info/tests/console.html

Terminal.com is also good.

Failing all that (and the rest of the useful selections)... if you have a C compiler  you could always try to print out and input the Python source code yourself ;)

But actually it would probably be easier to just write down the source on paper and translate it into the computer when you get home. Honestly that's probably the best way to go.
I once worked in an environment which blocked SSH outbound, and I simply just configured my server's SSH to listen on 443. The firewall can't tell the difference between encrypted SSH traffic vs encrypted HTTPS, so I was able to do whatever I needed on my personal machine. 
If all else fails - write poetry. The skills are transferable. Both good poetry and good code require a lot of attention, a lot of patience and caring not just about the meaning, but about the form.
[deleted]
Take a Linux rescue cd. 

Plug into windows comp.

Reboot.

play with python.
Do you have access to SSH or SSH via the web? You could set up your own server and access it remotely.
This may not be what you want, but if you have a smartphone(ios, android...), there are some decent python ide apps out there.
Maybe the safest option, thanks
+1. Portable Python is the way to go.http://portablepython.com/ got a lot of libs packages with it, and the other lib, well, you can get download them from pypi as zip most of the time and it will work out of the box. 
Nice, I will try this in a couple of hours. I'll let you know how I get on!
Not working, I'm afraid. Thanks anyway
Not going to happen, unfortunately. Locked down pretty tight here, the process for unrestricted internet is lengthy and wouldn't pass the review process as the systems I work on are well documented and information readily available within the unit.
I wonder if using email might work, setup a remote system with a daemon, which when it receives an email with a py file attachment it executes the code and replies to the email with the output/return value. 
This is my fall-back option. I have a few books that I can use, should the need arise.
That looks like a great service, however I notice the documentation states the following:

"If you do not have Python 2.5 (or later 2.x) already installed, you will have to download and install it before running web2py."
Nice, I will try this in a couple of hours. I'll let you know how I get on!
Probably blocked along with every *bin site out there, or at least thats how it is here at work for me.
Blocked :(
I'm looking for a web-based app, rather than an executable. I dont have the rights to run an exe file.

Several have been listed, I'll keep trying til I find one that works. Thanks for your concern but I'm not about to do anything that will get me into hot water.
Unable to boot from media, plus I'd definately be breaking regulations
Would be treading on dangerous ground here, thanks for the advice though.
Read the post again: the OP is not allowed to take phones inside the building.
Hollow out a square in the book and slip a tiny laptop in there.
For what I know of the environment you work in, I don't know if I'd risk the "ask for forgiveness not permission" approach even for that since it involves bringing it into the secure area. 

Accessing websites is one thing, their fault for not blocking it on the firewall...but anything that can be construed as running it on their computer...yeah.
Well if you're looking for a general purpose scientific distribution, I'd recommend WinPython. Good Luck!
If I follow, you have two connecting issues. 

One is that you have a very restrictive firewall to deal with. 

The other is that you need to code on the classified side but are feeling hampered by needing to learn totally offline. 

Is this right? If so, maybe what you need is to ask for an unclassified computer station sitting next to your classified computer station at your desk. It won't solve your firewall issue but it's still better than having to learn to code purely on the classified computer. 

If your issue really is the firewall, yeah, a book is your best bet. Or, this is probably kind of insane, but look into downloading the Python part of Stack Exchange onto a CD/DVD.
That would be pretty slick!
Read SICP!
From what I can tell it seems like the issues is with the fact that you are attempting to connect to a virtual comptuer on a remote server. It would be great if there were some web based forms that just did a character by character check to ensure the code was entered correct. 

let me know if you find something. 
Yes, that is why I suggested renting a server to run web2py on and then access it via it's web interface. 

Then the only thing you need is a browser which you stated you have in your OP. 

Also you can just see if pythonanywhere.com is not blocked. This also will host an instance of web2py that you can play around with. 

https://www.pythonanywhere.com/

Also there is cloud9 which is mainly a hosted IDE which a built in environment for running your projects. 

https://c9.io/

You could use any python framework you want with cloud9. You could even install it on your own rented server if you wanted. 

I can code in secret, obscured by a poster of Rita Hayworth. Genius.
Thanks
I've been working through the SICP in Clojure. An interesting read, but really quite heavy.
Thanks I will take a look when I get to work, web2py looks great.
I love it for simple projects, beginners, and one man full stack teams. It just brings everything you need in one cohesive package. 
