11 Malicious PyPI Python Libraries Caught Stealing Discord Tokens and Installing Shells

> The Python packages have since been removed from the repository following responsible disclosure by DevOps firm JFrog
>
> - importantpackage / important-package
> - pptest
> - ipboards
> - owlmoon
> - DiscordSafety
> - trrfab
> - 10Cent10 / 10Cent11
> - yandex-yt
> - yiffparty

"One of these [packages] is not like the others!"
Oof.  If you can't trust yiffparty, who can you trust?
I always read PyPI to the to the tune of 'NSYNC's "Bye bye bye".
People downloading stupid things are stupid.

More at 11
And yet people still ask why I prefer using my system package manager for python dependencies whenever possible.
[deleted]
Finally some honesty. Usually these things are kept hidden for a long time before it gets found. I'm assuming the person who discovered these exploits found no bigger use for them. (This so happens to be the case) (I'm also assuming there's many more out there waiting to be downloaded.) I wish there was a community surrounded around these exploits, so we can patch them quickly. Sorry if I sound like such a #whitehat. But tis true. Shells are an instant way to get your desktop seen.
"DiscordSafety"

nice
#If you ever typed 'pip install yiffparty' you deserve to be hacked
I had to search the meaning of yiff... omg...
I just pronounce it “pie pie”. I know that’s not particularly common way to do it, but if rolls off the tongue easier than the alternatives.
Might sound crazy, but it ain't no lie:

PyPI
Wouldn't that just install everything system wide - how would you do that with venvs? I guess you could just dockerize everything.
Thank God debian developers have kept the old version of yiffparty... /s

Your point is a non-sequitur IMHO. A system package manager was never gonna have these sorts of random names but as a "safe" version for you to get. These are all crazy. If you're installing 3rd party stuff without *exact* name-brand recognition or actual vetting then you're playing with loaded dice from the start.

You can't use your system package manager anymore when one project requires django 2 and one requires django 3.
[deleted]
How about just don't be an idiot and only install credible, trusted packages and don't auto-update them every day?
If I can convince you to pip install my malicious PyPI package I can probably convince you to pip install my malicious GitHub repo. And that’s basically what all these are about — they aren’t legit packages and rely on tricking someone into installing them, rather than something more serious like compromising a real package.
Try and install tensorflow with GPU support from VCS and come back.
Eli5? 

Pip install is so simple & works so well I really don't want any other new thing.
Those are even easier to typo squat and hide, and neither is there any recourse for "removing" them unless github (or insert other scm host here) itself takes responsibility themselves
I personally quite like `pip install django==99999999999` to find out what the versions of a package are, and `pip` is going to look up the dependencies listed by `setup.py` in your listed repos in PyPI anyway.
I was staring at the last one in the list myself, which of course the article doesn't mention more than that listing.

... did you catch the detail about the CDN C&C and the DNS tunnel exfiltrations? Pretty devious stuff...
[deleted]
lol
It was for a pirate patreon scrapping website lmao
i'm sorry man...
Should I not? I'm curious too...
Honestly I don't know a single alternative. How does anyone else say it?

Edit: pie pee eye?
"Cheese Shop" is also acceptable
Why would you need venvs? System package managers generally don't have incompatible package versions available.
> You can't use your system package manager anymore when one project requires django 2 and one requires django 3.

The only solution to this is just running everything in a Docker. But yeah using system manager for packages is a major pain.
I maintain a often used open source tool, and it seems like every other issue report I get is 1) a bug I fixed several releases ago but the user is on some distro that is 2-3 years behind; 2) installation difficulties that are a side effect of how a certain popular Linux distribution and its derivatives packages (neuters?) Python.
I use the distro repo for my system because I want a stable dev environment. I use PyPI for my projects because I want to work with the latest features.
Have you ever used a rolling release distro? Because they by definition include bleeding edge
Yeah, except then you have to dilute your trust among lots of third parties, and this list is hard to maintain. I already trust my distro's maintainers (they do whatever they want with my kernel, and I'm OK with it) and they are a closed set of easily identifiable people.

Is \`requests\` a credible, trusted package ? Read about its creator... How many other package you trust are maintained by... strange people to put it nicely ? It may be the case of my distro's maintainers too, but I can't do without them anyway.
[deleted]
[10 years and still open...](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/53)
> "Yiff.party is an alternative to other adult furry networks.

> The newest, hottest place for furries to share their sexual fantasies with each other in a controlled environment while also answering personal surveys about themselves."

Maybe an API wrapper for a... website?


I did, but I don't reallu understand any of it lol. I know quite a lot but not about malware and evasion and that kind of stuff
It's probably a scraper/API of some kind for the (now defunct) yiff.party website. Before going down, it was a crowdsourced Patreon repository, where users could share paywalled content.
buddies doing social media! hahahah
Do it _because_ you shouldn't.  Knowledge cannot be unlearnt, and you wish to curse yourself.
Someone pointed out to me that PyPy would be "pie pie", so PyPI should be "pie pee eye" to disambiguate.
Yeah, I've always pronounced it pie-pie, but apparently that's discouraged by the official Python packaging group. They suggest pie-pea-eye, or even just saying all three words: python-packaging-index.

See: https://github.com/pypa/packaging.python.org/issues/89
Pye pie, minor difference but I hear it
My boss always calls it “pie pee” and I don’t have the heart to ask him to stop.
https://pypi.org/404 and scroll down!

(though it's a fairly niche Easter egg / reference, these days...)
When working on multiple projects with different dependencies.
oftentimes developers are confronted with the need for a specific version, if they want to contribute to a project.

oftentimes, those projects are ones you have to contribute to, since you get paid for it.

this is why for perfect security you would keep all projects entirely separated out.

of course, only installing packages that are generally trusted is a much more reasonable suggestion, as total security is not something a lot of people, even developers will want to put up with.
Dockers are privileged.  You want Podman.
As an admin I got sick of this too.

I ship interpreters built via pyenv (itself done as a part of our standard Ansible play) on our hosts (RHEL) and encourage our users and developers to create virtual environments from it instead of using the system's bundled python.

Been doing this a few years and it works well. It helps that we, basically, already want all the development tools and libraries needed to build that as part of our standard anyway.
Which works _terribly_ when you, you know, have a job, and the library versions on the projects upon which you work aren't the latest.
I'm sorry, but I can't find anything, what is wrong with him?
Thanks, i didn't know pip could install from GitHub. 

VCS stands for Version Control System here, for anyone wondering.
I wouldn't use latest, because many packages require a specific version of numpy.

The reason not everyone should use VCS URLs is because they might not have the dev tools to build from git and setting them up may be massive pain, looking at you orjson). Some stuff takes ages to build and requires specific packages, like opencv and matplotlib. Or have absolutely nightmarish build steps like tensorflow. Some of these have system packages and some don't.
Well we have there, their, and they’re so I’m fine with a little ambiguity. It comes out in the context.
Kitchen also financial particular national. Small word street. Environment class at official mother service serve.
Ugh, terrible.

VINCENT THE INVALID
Yeah don’t pollute your system python folks. It’s not 2008 anymore
But you selected dependency versions that are available in your system repo for all your projects, right? Which means you should be able to co-install all of them.

There are two approaches to the incompatible versions problem. One is the venv approach (now you just have to make sure you don't have incompatible dependencies within a project). The other is the Stackage approach where someone curates large, compatible, sets of packages which can all be co-installed. System package managers generally take this second approach.
I wish podman was supported by portainer.
Had a schizophrenic breakdown one time.  Seems a bit fucked up to denigrate him for that, to be honest.
I still get cold sweats thinking of trying to install opencv on my Rpi3. 

*shudders*
Some of them just have much worse performance if you don't have X and y installed already. Definitely agree with avoiding installing from VCS where possible
Well, technically, something similar to "pee" (in Greek), but, of course, Americans say "pie".
Right but then you can't distribute your project to others can you? It just seems like creating a massive limitation that's already solved by using venvs.
Tell me you've never worked in the field without telling me.
I know, because the functionality of the Cockpit interface is pretty dismal.  

I absolutely love being able to put my docker-compose stacks into a local Gitea, and Portainer checks periodically and updates the stack if I make changes in git.

I don't even see a way to set a pod in podman cockpit to autostart without having to resort to the CLI.  It's pretty much there to say "yah, it exists".
It seems that it goes far beyond schizophrenic issues.

I, of course, don't denigrate people based on mental health issues, and this is not what I called "strange" in his behaviour.

I feel stuck, now, as I'm not here to bash a person in particular, it's not the point here.
Ha, I remember having to use a USB drive for swap to build numpy on one. Not enough memory to do it otherwise and using the sd card for swap is... let's just say don't do that.

(and I was doing this on Alpine, so not exactly a bloaty distribution)
I recall some stuff just won't build on raspberry pi zero because there isn't enough RAM to do so.
Police here into standard line. Law service huge attention. Both week serious professional cold environment marriage.
Why not? You can even make a system package for your project.
The point is that the maintainers of a package have absolutely nothing to do with its trustworthiness, and you're foolish for bringing it up.

The trustworthiness lies with the auditors you hire.  If you don't hire auditors, (be them third or first party), the code you use should be expected to be complete untrustable trash.
Yeah, me neither.
