If you open PDFs with the pdfminer module, does it ignore the executable code that people are ranting about with viruses?
Just curious. It might be a stupid question. Thank you
It's not going to run any embedded code, if that's what you're asking. You will be able to see it though.

http://shaunzinck.tumblr.com/post/3408456578/using-pdfminer-to-dissect-malicious-pdfs

The Javascript put in PDFs normally target Adobe Reader, because that's what most people use. If you use something like Foxit you're much less likely to become infected. If you use Sumatra, it's impossible because Sumatra does not support Javascript embedded in PDFs and therefore it can't execute. PDF viruses are trivial to circumvent: don't use a PDF reader that supports Javascript. If it does, turn it off. You can turn it off in Reader/Acrobat but if you're going to do that you may as well install a different PDF viewer because Reader is a slow, bloated piece of shit.
Try it and see. Write some code that'll make a new file on your desktop into a pdf, then open it and see what happens.
I'm honestly not sure. I have some experience using pdfminer for data extraction and never had any problem with executable code, but then I'm pretty sure I never dealt with any pdfs with malicious content in them. 

the project is open source though, so you can read through the code yourself and try to judge if its secure:

https://github.com/euske/pdfminer

or possibly email the creator Yusuke Shinyama and ask him about it. 

http://cs.nyu.edu/~yusuke/
>If you use Sumatra, it's impossible because Sumatra does not support Javascript embedded in PDFs and therefore it can't execute.

It's not *impossible* for there to be an exploit just because Javascript is disabled. It's much less likely, but still possible. For example, the reader could have a buffer overflow that's triggered when certain characters or images are embedded.

Javascript in PDFs isn't inherently insecure; it's just that PDF readers with scripting engines greatly increase the potential surface area for exploitation.
acrobat supports an insane amount of things inside PDFs,including code, 3d stuff, actually treating the pdf as like a 'folder' for other things to be stored in, etc

Most pdfs readers except for acrobat just render the PDF and ignore the more exotic features, i dont think i've ever seen a pdf with javascript in it, or maybe i have not noticed
>if you're going to do that you may as well install a different PDF viewer because Reader is a slow, bloated piece of shit.

I don't follow your reasoning here. Installing a different viewer is much more work than changing the preferences in Reader; and turning off Javascript support does not make Reader any slower or more bloated.
[deleted]
Did you just say Reader is a slow, bloated piece of shit?

Wow.  I installed Reader on Linux about 6 months back, simply because every other reader I tried worked horribly (as in 1 minute per page turn) on pdf's of book scans from archive.org.  Reader works fine.


+1 for thinking like an engineer. 

"Does it do this?" Who knows! Let's test! 
Running scripts in more or less anything increases the surface area for attack.

See also: web browsers
I know I have, from the MS website. Was an interactive PDF on licensing.
It will also run flash embedded in a PDF.
My reasoning is if you have no need for embedded Javascript in PDF or other fun things that Reader supports you're better off with a different PDF viewer because nearly all the other ones are faster and don't take up as much screen space.
Because the module that he is asking for is a python module.
If you can, get another source for your PDFs.

Archive.org just scans the book and makes a pdf of the images. This is inherently retarded and expensive in both space and RAM. Like, 100+MB pdfs are common.

Use an EPUB or  DJVU version if you can, but don't blame the program because you cherry picked a terrible file example.
Did you try Foxit for Linux?
Evince is very bloated and very slow. Okular has by far the best performance. 
It's the same issue with Word vs LibreOffice. If something doesn't work with Acrobat it doesn't get released, so everything appears to work with Acrobat. There are definitely still PDFs that most of the alternatives can't handle. Forms are usually a trainwreck for example.
What other readers did you try????
Works a lot better in programming, because you can (usually) experiment without permanently breaking anything. Doesn't work quite so well with, say, civil engineering.
Yep, absolutely.
Forms embedded in PDFs are slightly more common, but afaik they dont use javascript (sometimes they do to enhance the form itself but standalone it doesn't require it)
No.  I pretty much stick with what's available in my distro's repos.
[deleted]
evince, xpdf, kpdf
It had highlighting on cells (mouse over) and drop-down menus, I'll try and find it again and open it with pdfminer, how would that be done without Javascript?
Fair enough, it's worth a shot though it works well under Linux. I've not used Reader on Linux before, only Windows. On Windows at least it's about the slowest PDF reader out there.


But it only works in Windows ....
Like k3b is the premier Linux disk burning solution, Okular is the de facto gold standard pdf viewer. I can't think of a PDF roundup article that didn't have Okular winning the comparison; it's a best-in-class product. You would be well advised to give that a try. 
Dropdown menus can be done in forms. Though what you're talking about probably is indeed javascript. I thought you meant more basic, fillable fields.
Thanks for the suggestion.
[deleted]
Well, better than installing Windows.
