XZ Vulnerability Anaconda
Is the xz library compromised along with the xz Linux utility?

Anaconda seems to auto load this library upon creation of new venvs.  


Anaconda claims that their XZ code base is unaffected by the hack.  See their [blog](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/anaconda-not-affected-by-malicious-xz-code) for more info.
It is something I worry about. While the known sshd vulnerability is not included in the versions of xz that Anaconda uses, it still contains a lot of code committed by the malicious maintainer "Jia Tan". Who knows what might hide in there.

As you can see from this [debian bug reports discussion](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=1068024), Jia Tan has made more than 700 commits to xz and the majority of these are found in version 5.4.5 used by Anaconda. I'll just paste the relevant comment from the Debian discussion here:

    I count a minimum of 750 commits or contributions to xz by Jia Tan, who
    backdoored it.
    
    This includes all 700 commits made after they merged a pull request in Jan 7
    2023, at which point they appear to have already had direct push access, which
    would have also let them push commits with forged authors. Probably a number of
    other commits before that point as well.
    
    Reverting the backdoored version to a previous version is not sufficient to
    know that Jia Tan has not hidden other backdoors in it. Version 5.4.5 still
    contains the majority of those commits.
    
    Commits by them such as 18d7facd3802b55c287581405c4d49c98708c136 
    and ae5c07b22a6b3766b84f409f1b6b5c100469068a show that they were deep
    into analyzing the security of xz. They were well placed to insert a buffer
    overflow that could allow eg, a targeted xz file to cause arbitrary code
    execution. The impact of such a security hole could be much more stealthy and
    bad than the known backdoor since it would allow chaining xz with other
    unrelated software releases on an ongoing basis.
    
    The package should be reverted to a version before their involvement,
    which started with commit 6468f7e41a8e9c611e4ba8d34e2175c5dacdbeb4.
    Or their early commits vetted and revert to a later point, but any arbitrary 
    commit by a known bad and malicious actor almost certainly has less value
    than the risk that a subtle change go unnoticed.
    
    I'd suggest reverting to 5.3.1. Bearing in mind that there were security
    fixes after that point for ZDI-CAN-16587 that would need to be reapplied.
    I count a minimum of 750 commits or contributions to xz by Jia Tan, 
    who backdoored it.
Not affected by the known backdoor in the recent version. Maybe I'm being paranoid, but I've reinstalled my OS and been spending the last few days trying to figure out ways to easily set up new VMs for each project instead of a Conda environment. While there's a slim chance there are still undetected backdoors lurking in Jia Tans xz code, it's not just xz. Even if there's no more backdoors in xz, was this the only one? Have they infiltrated more open source projects with undetected backdoors?

For me at least I feel its time to start using VMs a bit more. While I would be extremely surprised if any intelligence service in the world has the slightest interest in me, that's not the only possibility. It could for example that the Russians are planning a major cyberattack against western interests, including any company or citizen with a backdoor installed, and simply wants to wreak havoc by deleting hard drives or who knows what.
You have the same text twice in the quote.
> trying to figure out ways to easily set up new VMs for each project instead of a Conda environment

Containers. You want containers.
As the other person said, look at devcontainers.
I'd actually spend time learning about the upstream/distribution model for software and why long term support for kernel versions is usually a major version behind.... that is, before you embark on a retooling venture based on feelings.
Thanks. Hadn't noticed I pressed ctrl+v twice. Edited the text to fix it now.
