Chesterton's fence: A principle that might be nice to keep in mind while writing new PEPs.

Is this a not-so-subtle jab at the two new string formatting PEPs?
Interesting.

I'm reminded of a little blog post called "[On Following Rules](http://www.kirit.com/On%20following%20rules)" by Kirit Sælensminde. (I used to have my Data Structures & Algorithms class read this.)
Misunderstanding or shallow grasp of current state is the main reason of future disasters. That's a general rule, repeatedly manifested in history but people are incorrigible.

As already mentioned it has nothing to do with blind religion or rabid conservatism. It's much more about wisdom and collected experience. The fence should be removed only if proposer fully understands reasons why it was placed where it is or there is nobody or no written records which can explain its existence and purpose. Otherwise there is a high probability the old mistakes would repeat again …


Fair enough, but how do we then deal with cargo cult programming? 
[deleted]
This is about removing features.  It is not about adding features.  This has nothing to do with string formatting.

I run an open source project.  If you can make a convincing argument for a feature/how things should work, regardless of how much work is involved in implementing it, yeah it'll get put on the list.

So in regards to strings.  If we agree `{cat} {dog}`.format(cat=1, dog=2)` is better than ``%s %s` % (cat, dog)` (I don't), we could remove it, but then the fence analogy would apply.

The new string formatting suggestions should get filed under "I don't understand it and don't think it's useful" kinda like how I don't understand why we got `isclose` in 3.5 when I can just use `allclose` from numpy (and the default args are terrible IMO).  

At some point, you just have to take a step back and say, why not?  The second you open source your code you'd better be OK with people saying they don't like how it works and sometimes you can actually fix things such that they'll be happy without making everyone else unhappy.
I am definitely a fan of Chesterton and definitely a fan of conservatism in computer systems design, but I've never been a fan of this principle. Sometimes things were done because nobody knew better and some solution or another was needed, regardless of merit. If you keep that in mind, sure. If there's an active obligation to say "I see no evidence that thought was put into the old way of doing things," and that's enough, sure. But if you have to _prove_ that you've looked into it and find any scraps of evidence about any thinking that went into it before changing it... that's a great way for the least-thought-through fences to stand forever out of baseless conservatism.
yes, yes it is.
Doesn't the first PEP have a whole section describing the differences between f-strings and the format method that discusses why the format method was used (simplicity with translation strings) and why it's different (not being for translation strings at all)?
[deleted]
It's not necessarily a cheer for the status quo unless you choose to understand it this way. You don't necessarily have to agree with the reasons, or spend an unreasonable amount of time trying to find them if they're somehow hidden or inaccessible. However, it stands to reason that at least making a reasonable attempt to understand why a rule has been put in place before trying to change it is not a bad thing.


How did you get to the conclusion that it is advocating "Status quo", when it merely asks to seek the original reason behind something, before changing it. 

That is like saying  that the proverb "Think before you leap" is a stupid one that is made to prevent people from moving around. Please don't do that. Please do not misrepresent plain and simple guidelines and paint them as something malicious.
Are there any links to those?
How we tell the difference between rules we don't understand and cargo cult? 

Start from first principals and trust nothing else.

This is why CS courses have so much math and things like TTL at the outset.
