Does the heartbleed vulnerability affect Python web crawlers?
I asked this on stack overflow but has not received any answers yet.
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/22932443/does-the-heartbleed-vulnerability-affect-python-web-crawlers

If someone can induce my Python web crawler to visit a malicious https page (and download it with requests, urllib2, pycurl or something else), can they use the openssl heartbleed vulnerability to attack me?

If I understand it correctly, the information leak affects both the client and the server.

Browser clients don't use OpenSSL, but I think the Python clients do.

EDIT:
Asked on security.stackexchange and it seems that yes, clients can get their entire memory read by a malicious server.
http://security.stackexchange.com/questions/55119/does-the-heartbleed-vulnerability-affect-clients-as-severely

Such clients may contain passwords and certificates to store the data, for example in a database or on a cloud server/service somewhere.
The Heartbleed bug is a vulnerability in OpenSSL, not SSL itself.  Any library or package that uses a vulnerable version of the OpenSSL library is also vulnerable.

The `ssl` library in Python uses OpenSSL installed on the operating system.  Your system is vulnerable unless you update OpenSSL to a non-vulnerable version or you re-compile OpenSSL without the handshake.
what secret information do you have that could be lost?  typically only a server has keys.

i don't see a likely scenario that puts you at risk.
But do the libraries linking to OpenSSL need to be recompiled?
There is at least one aspect that may make clients less susceptible - since you get a random(?) 64kb package from memory each time, you can connect many times to a server to puzzle together the complete memory. But can you make a client reconnect multiple times to get more than just a random 64 kb block?
A client may have keys or passwords to store the data somewhere. If you store something on Amazon, you authenticate with keys.
Only OpenSSL should be recompiled or updated.  You don't have to recompile Python itself.
> But can you make a client reconnect multiple times to get more than just a random 64 kb block?

I suppose in theory yes, but it's more likely that you connect in one TLS session and keep requesting 64 KBs of data.
The 64kb of previously de-allocated data is sent as an answer to each heartbeat request, which can occur many times during one TLS/SSL session.
ok, in that case you should be concerned.
It is not Python I am concerned about, it is the modules that use C-extensions that are compiled against OpenSSL that concern me. Say curl.
Again, you only have to recompile or update OpenSSL.  The bug is an **implementation** of the heartbeat protocol/extension of SSL in OpenSSL.
Recompiling or updating OpenSSL is only sufficient, if these extensions link against OpenSSL dynamically. If they link against it statically, they will have to be rebuild as well.
