DALL·E 2 now available as public API for Python!
\[DALL·E 2\] is now available as API for Python.  Check out this project.

Create images from the command line: [https://github.com/alxschwrz/dalle2\_python](https://github.com/alxschwrz/dalle2_python)

[https://openai.com/blog/dall-e-api-now-available-in-public-beta/](https://openai.com/blog/dall-e-api-now-available-in-public-beta/)
[deleted]
Can people use the api to create an iphone app and make money with it or are there some license restrictions?
Please don't ask it to create anything with a realistic face. Just don't.

https://labs.openai.com/s/HDjwgtEG5OcEeSMtQpcmfdsq
Way cool!
I bet someone already is writing or wrote a slack or discord bot.
Thank you for posting this.
I mean, why not just Stable Diffusion? You can install it locally and build an API pretty easily. No tokenization involved.
I'm guessing as you need an openai account. It uses your tokens? So when you run out you have to BUY more.
It keeps installing  openai in a weird path. Do you know how to fix that?
No you can't, if you look at the github repo (or try to use it) it obviously generates a config file and requests you to put your OpenAI secret key in there to start generating the images.

The only way to create an app to do that is to either distribute your secret key in the app (it's gonna get stolen) or make the user create an OpenAI account and put a secret key in there (which won't scale at all).

EDIT: I AM WRONG, READ CORRECTION BELOW
Sure. This is a paid API, I'm really not sure what the other replies to you are on about.
[deleted]
There are no hard license restrictions, but the OpenAI policy has a number of terms around reasonable usage, designed to protect against malicious use AI. Providing an app which allowed users easy access to the model whilst remaining within these terms could be awkward, and someone doing this would really have to be sure about the liability aspects.
It made a Klingon.
Lol first thing that came to mind is how can I spin a Slack bot to management
>  No tokenization involved.

FYI: in the context of the tools we're talking about here, "tokenization" usually refers to the process of chunking up input data into a representation that the chosen ML algorithm understands, rather than anything to do with API tokens.
Depends on what you want to do.

If you just want to explore AI and make a few calls, at $0.016 a request for 255x256 it might be a better use of your time and home electricity to just use this service.

If you plan to do some substantial artwork generating thousands of images, maybe build your own stack from open source.

If you want to launch a commercial application with a potential large user base, maybe use this service as it already provides the scalability for you.
I don't understand the incredulity people have about needing to pay for inferencing services. This stuff costs quite a lot of money to develop and operate. I would love if it were free. I would particularly like it to be open sourced. But so long as you're running processing intensive tasks using someone else's computer, I would very well expect to pay for it.
Uhhh yeah this took many developers years to create and each request uses a non negligible amount of computing power.

Do you expect everything to be totally free? When you walk in the grocery store are you surprised that you have to pay for things?
Or an api gateway server.
Hey just wondering, what if you change the library a little to take the secret key of yours with a request from your server(?) and use it directly without saving it as a file?
ITT: people who don't understand how SaaS works
What? This is not true at all.

Nvrmnd comments already point this out.
It's not free. The python client is open source, but the OpenAI API requires payment to use.
It's not free. The python client is open source, but the OpenAI API requires payment to use.
Google isn't short on money. They allow you to inference on all sorts of products for free as long as they can use your data. Google colab offers free gpu resources as an example. If stability ai can release stable diffusion as open source, I don't see why google won't. Google dont release any code for free when they can monotise it. So fair play to stability ai for being so generous. It cost them hundreds of thousands to train their models.
Huh I just put 2-and-2 together and realized that's what people refer to as a gateway server.  I've built a few over the years but always called them 'passthru servers'
Oh yes you could definitely do that. But you'll still have to pay openai for every person using your app.
can you elaborate on this? I've never used an API gateway but from reading the basics on it, it seems like its basically a reverse proxy. How does that solve the problem?
The app still need to make that request, and a skilled reverse engineer will be able to make the same request themselves and grab the key. And at that point, you're as well just having the server make the request itself and avoid the secret key touching the client.
[deleted]
So they just released a simple API wrapper for free, just reinforces what I thought
> Google colab offers free gpu resources as an example.

not anymore. And the reason google offered that free compute wasn't because the cost is offset by user data, the goal is to use colab as a kind of "gateway product" to buy more deeply into the google cloud ecosystem.
Dalle2 is openAi not Google...
Sure you can get stable diffusion for free as open source, but there's still a cost to running it. If you turned that into a cloud hosted service and allowed anyone to request from it, you would incur costs, probably pretty substantial ones.
Toyota isn't short on money, but I won't ask for a free car.
Have them pay to use your app 
.
Why doesn't it not scale? From the docs, I think you get unlimited requests per second for a paid account. If it's free, you get limited number of requests.
The proxy server can hold the credentials.
So, you don't necessarily have to use a shrink-wrapped "API Gateway" product for this (and indeed I'd be reluctant to recommend doing so - every system I've worked with that used one was a poorly modularised mess and had no meaningful change control), but you have a gateway server that holds the credentials used to access the service, and if the user connecting to it is entitled to do so (in whatever way makes most sense to your application), the gateway server will forward on their request to the service.
[deleted]
their api tos says nothing resembling what you're claiming it says. https://openai.com/api/policies/terms/

why would theyy offer an api if they didn't want people to build products around it?
I thought the GPU runtimes in Colab were free, I still use them routinely for small model projects. Unless you're talking about full unrestricted access.
I don’t think they were implying it is. Just using Google as an example of a company that provides closed source services for free.
I would drive the free car that stability ai would release. And drive it with my own graphics card. And thank them for being so generous.
So still not free.
Unlimited requests, but you pay per request. Your app would need to earn more than you spend in API requests.

https://openai.com/api/pricing/
ah ok, so basically the user has credentials for accessing the API, and if they can access the API it sends a request to the main server, and the main server holds the creds to OpenAPI and then sends a request to OpenAPI
I don't think that's what was being asked.

I think the question was "what if the DALL-E API key wasn't in the app, but could be obtained by the app from our server?"

And in that case, an attacker only needs to obtain the key once, and then they can use it directly themselves.
my understanding is that the free tier was further nerfed after the release of the new compute quota pricing model, but I may have misunderstood. As an author of some moderately popular colab tools, I can definitely vouch that there appears to have at least been a migration away from colab in the ai art community due to at least the perception of significantly reduced or eliminated free GPU availability.
I'm not sure what you are getting at. Do you expect that it should be free?
Yeah that's the business side of the app. By scaling I thought you meant it from a tech perspective.
Stick an advert after every 3rd request.
Yes, exactly. In some cases, the API server can be the same as the main server.
Oh yeah oops.
Not at all. But I’m not sure of the point of creating and charging for an app as opposed to just paying the OG devs
People who download the app will expect that it will be free, or at most a small one-time price for unlimited use.
3 adverts on every request!
That's irrelevant to the original query.
To make something more user friendly.

(Subjective)
Many people do not know how to use an API, and therefore there is a market in selling convenience.
Well that's just silly.
Append "with sponsored poduct such-and-such in hand" to every text prompt and let AI handle it :-)
user experience is an actual field of study.
Genius!  With that kind of evil thinking, are you sure you're not an AI?
