I feel more like Dr.Frankenstein than a programmer is it normal?
I never get a proper education in computer science or something. I learned a little bit PLC programming and did a few projects now I work on a project with python. Since I don’t know inside and out most the things I needed I search in web and copy paste parts of code and change it according to what is needed. I mean it works in the end but I feel more like Dr.Frankenstein than a programmer stitching parts of code together. I am not sure if this is the proper way but I don’t know any other so just wanted to reach out to check if this is normal or should I study more to depend less on internet searches?
FWIW, pretty much *every* programmer continually depends on internet searches. There are a few shops that don't have internet access because they're working on extremely sensitive software (think like military stuff), but in those cases they have to have *tons* of completely thorough documentation downloaded already and available on the company intranet, and usually their own internal search engine.

I would recommend when searching for solutions to your questions/problems, don't stop at copying and pasting what looks like a solution. Make sure you understand *why* the code you're copying works, what it's doing. This will sometimes necessitate going back to the official documentation for Python and whatever additional modules you're using and looking up the specific objects and methods you're dealing with. That'll help you find the correct solutions faster just by reading the code before copying and trying it.
> I search in web and copy paste parts of code and change it according to what is needed

Congratulations, you're a programmer.

This isn't to say that programming is always like that, but you don't have to know everything and be able to write out a full working system yourself. See how others have done it, tinker, explore, and settle on something that works for you.
What you're describing is something I've felt and will continue to feel. 

Something that went a long way to mitigating the feels of "stitching random stuff together" was to develop an appreciation of programming patterns and (very important) when they could/should be applied.

There's "the" book which people often refer RE programming patterns: "Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software" - I've had more fun with https://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/ which is the same patterns but applied to context of writing games.

Another thing that has helped me feel more like an "artisan" - is learning things that while at first glance are about writing code to solve the immediate problem, but make me more productive or help me in the long term. Test Driven Development seemed like such a chore, but where I have it and I come back to that code after sometime I am so thankful for it.
"It's ALIVE!" lol

I am in education, which has included programming, but I've found it to be more effective to research solutions, which includes copying and pasting code, than to rely solely on their teaching. As long as you understand what each line of code is doing, copying and pasting is just saving you the effort of typing it out, as I see it. 

Really, as humans we all learn from eachother, just as the first person to code with Python after it was created would have had to learn from the creator. We all learn differently, and if your method works for you, then that's great!
This is super normal. And the longer you code the less you will be just pasting parts, but we all hit google to find solutions. Just less frequently as time goes on.

A couple of things to help speed up your knowledge acquisition if you choose to and have the time. Read a data structures book (or watch some comprehensive youtube videos or whatever you do to absorb information the best). That stuff comes up everywhere.

Also, do Advent of Code. They leave the old one's up and tons of people do it, so when you are really stumped or have your solution search on it and you will see other people's solutions and can compare them to yours and see how to improve implementing increasingly complex algorithms.
If I relied solely on the skills I learnt / remember, I would never write anything that worked.

The real skill is in knowing the theory of what you want to achieve and finding the practical way of achieving it.  Everything is just a bonus.

e.g. I was asked if I could build a digital version of a system that involved a bicycle connected to a turntable record player.  The aim was to maintain the ability to link the playback speed to the speed that the rider was pedalling at.  I went through three different iterations and much of it involved a heavy amount of cutting and pasting from online examples.  And now I have a Raspberry Pi that can be connected to an exercise bike and plays MP3s.
OP is an average Python Programmer ;\* <3
Even experienced programmers go to stackechange. 😉
I spent two years of college learning programming. But I actually learned more from YouTube than the professor’s. If it works use it. Just make sure you don’t copy anything malicious.
Lol what’s PLC? Been a dev for 5 years no idea what that is
Thanks everyone for the answer. It’s nowhere like that kind of (military or sth) sensitive stuff that I am working in and I always try to understand what the code is doing. But for example I use opencv for image processing I can understand how drawing rectangle works or what pandas do but if I need to write those codes probably it will take a whole month for me to do that. As a student they teach me C and I had worked on it but with python I feel like it catapulted me somewhere I don’t actually belong. I use the modules and in the context of the module I can get what’s going on but don’t know much how it is written etc. With C I always felt more like building from the scratch. With python it feels like exactly how I explained I know that I need an arm for my Frankenstein monster so I find something similar to an arm and change it and stitch it to my code but if I need to build the bones, nerves, muscles, skin from scratch I don’t think I would be able to do that and it bothers me for some reason. Maybe this is a new era and I should be comfortable not knowing exactly everything and be happy that I can do what I can. I don’t know just wanted to share my feelings and I already feel better for it so thanks everyone again for the answers.
I agree. As long as you know what's going on. And plus, I'm pretty sure you're never expected to know every single method and trick out there. I feel like searching things up and being resourceful is a big part of programming, at least in my opinion.
Thanks for the answer this is the first time I heard advent of code so I definitely will check on it. It’s like I do some kind of stuff and monetize them in my work so that is okay but I also feel like I’m cheating. For example in my work there was a machine that needs to detect sterile eggs in an hatchery and where I work were thinking on buying an specific license for image processing (which was really expensive in my opinion) and I thought it might be done in python and it really is. But if someone ask me to do that without using opencv module I will just probably fail miserably. I feel like python modules catapulted me somewhere I shouldn’t be. Also people behave like I’m like a wizard or something and it triggered some kind of imposter syndrome I think anyway thank’s again for the answer.
Thanks for the answer It is not that I’m that clueless to run a malicious code and do that level of complex things. I always try to understand what the code does but if I needed to write them I would’t be able to. Like opencv it is amazing that I can do those kind of image processing stuff but I would’t be able to write everything I do there from scratch so I feel like I’m cheating something.
Sorry didn’t see this one. PLC is a programmable logic controller it’s used in Control Panel’s in industrial applications. The basic idea is not having a really fast big computing power but really robust solution. Of course nowadays they have very different versions faster ones etc. It was more for “electrical people” than “computer people”.
