Community Supreme Bot (CSB) Official Release (V3) (Free Open Source Tool for Copping Supreme)
  

What is CSB?

CSB or Community Supreme Bot is a project that has been in development for nearly a year now. Previously known as FESBSC, CSB is a completely free open source bot to cop clothing items from Supreme. Evidently, a market for Supreme bots has developed within the Supreme Community. This market has become saturated with bots that seldom work at prices exceeding hundreds of dollars. The CSB project is an attempt to remove these huge paywalls, allowing all members of the Supreme community a fair chance in copping the items they want without any extra burdens on their wallet. This being said, CSB is still in development and success will never be 100% guaranteed. However, we are constantly working on the bot in order to raise the success rate with ambitious yet capable plans for the future involving new tech which has never been utilised within this field. Currently CSB is being developed by a two man team: me – Tom, also known as HA6Bots and Daniel commonly referred to as Danielyc on forums. We have been working very hard throughout the summer to create a stable and functioning bot in preparation for the fall/winter season 2018. This being said, we are proud to release CSB V3.0. Again, we emphasise that the bot is a work in progress and success is not guaranteed. By downloading and using this tool, you as an individual are responsible for the output whether you successfully purchase your item or not. We accept no responsibility for any mishaps that may occur.

Download:

CSB V3.0 Windows: [http://csb.center/CSB.html](http://csb.center/CSB.html)

CSB V3.0 Mac:  [http://csb.center/CSB-MAC.html](http://csb.center/CSB-MAC.html)

Chromedriver: [http://chromedriver.chromium.org/downloads](http://chromedriver.chromium.org/downloads) 

FAQ

How do I use CSB?

We have written up a detailed set of instructions which can be found at csb.center. Included in the download is readme which also contains these instructions.

Are my payment details safe?

Yes. The bot itself (the python scripts) does not connect to any servers. The tool itself is completely client side, payment details (if chosen) are kept on your personal device in an encrypted .cnf file located within your CSB folder directory. The user has the option of saving payment and billing details when prompted to. Again, I repeat this is stored in an encrypted .cnf file which is only accessible via your personal password. Alternatively, the user does not have to save these details and can use the program as normal. The source code is on GitHub at r/https://github.com/danielyc/csb and can be analysed for complete transparency.

How was CSB made?

CSB is made with python. We utilise several libraries in order to make the bot functional. Selenium is used with chromedriver to replicate user interactions with the Supreme website. We use PyQt5 for the UIs. We are planning to replace Selenium and the chromedriver in the near future with our own custom library which will utilise Image recognition technology.

Why is CSB free?

There are several reasons why the CSB project is free:

&#x200B;

1. We want to send      a message to the companies that have been exploiting the Supreme Community      for years with extortionate fees for outdated bots that barely work: This      is not a productive use of technology and is a business model that is      unethical and out-right shady. We want to show that the prices that have      been charged by these companies and individuals are completely artificial –      if two people can create a bot at no other expense then a few hours a day,      why are single use bots going for $200+?
2. The bot is still in development. The bot will always be in      development. This is the nature of bots – things keep getting updated,      Supreme will always push out new changes to their website, so we will need      to make sure the bot is responsive to all these changes. Thus there will      always be an element or risk that the bot will not work. However small      this risk might be, it will always exist and therefore there is always a      chance it will not work. Even if there is a 1% chance that the bot will be      unsuccessful, this means that one out of a hundred people would have      wasted their money. The only solution to this issue is to keep the bot      free.
3. We like Supreme. The bot is a gift to the Supreme Community and      gifts are free.

Will development be sustainable?

Currently CSB is being developed by two people – me (Tom) and Daniel. I will be working full time very soon while Daniel will start university in early September. However this will not stop us from continuing development on the bot. Last year we both had school and still managed to push out the first two versions of the bot. At the moment, apart from time – monetary costs are low. We are planning to further the project with some servers and a website in the near future. We will always keep the bot free for everyone to use. We may at some point look into different avenues for monetization such as advertisements but we will never introduce any paywalls that undermine the functionality and idea behind CSB.

How can I support the CSB project?

Like mentioned before CSB will and always will be free. We will never ask for any money as CSB is a gift to the community. You can support us by telling your friends/fellow Supreme users about CSB and help spread the word that a free and trustworthy bot exists. If you really want to support the project you can donate to our PayPal at r/https://www.paypal.me/supportcsb. We also have a Bitcoin and Ethereum wallet: BTC 32U1WNf47UXcmDuMoJ7vezKd7UGRXmqPFP ETH 0xd445FC2b12B15A0FcA52153a75956bAb843bD03a. We appreciate any donations of any amount. We will also add your name to the donor list in the credits section of the bot unless you say otherwise. The money will help finance any costs involved with the bot such as domains, websites, servers etc.

Will CSB completely automated? Is there anything I have to do manually?

Currently for CSB V3.0 we have not reached full automation. While the bot will automatically find and add the item to the basket as well as filling out all the billing/shipping details, a google Captcha will appear at the end. This is the only process the user manually has to complete. Once the Captcha is completed the purchase will be completed. We are working hard to bypass the Captcha and already have some prototype concepts in production. Please read the instructions located at the bottom of this document for more information.

Chrome and/or my antivirus blocked the file. Is the code malicious?

Much to our frustration, CSB is being flagged by some antivirus software. The code is not malicious in anyway at all and can be viewed within the GitHub. Please add main.exe as an exception with your respective antivirus software and you should be able to run the program.

What is the licencing for CSB?

CSB operates under GNU AGPLv3. You are free to use the tool however you want - as long as it is compliant with the licence.

What OS (Operating Systems) is CSB compatible with?

As of now, windows 7 through 10 and MacOS

Can I help with the production of CSB?

At the moment we are not looking for any new members to join the team. Currently, the project is not big enough for multiple people to work on it without causing greater inconveniences. This being said, you can still help us by emailing us crash reports to info@csb.center or open bugreports on the github page.

How can I get in contact with the CSB team?

You can get in contact with us by emailing [info@csb.center](mailto:info@csb.center)

If CSB worked as intended or you want to support the project, you can donate at [https://www.paypal.me/supportcsb](https://www.paypal.me/supportcsb). Any amount is appreciated and we will add your name if you wish to the donor list which will be included on a later version Thanks! -HA6Bots and Danielyc
As someone completely on the outside of this. What is supreme and why does it need a bot?
I was wondering, which programming language do you recommend for creating checkout bot & how to increase its efficiency by finding the item on the supreme website and checkout out in less then two seconds excluding payment processing 
I was wondering if you guys have tried using requests and the mobile api endpoints instead?
Great stuff fellas would love to work on this project with you both...... is this still running/will it work for this weeek? 

Going to fork this and start making my own adjustments 
I have had 0 luck with CSB the past two drops though I followed the instructions to the tee. It goes to the shop page when drop time hits but doesn't seem to do anything. Twitter page is inactive and no responses from email support–I guess CSB is dead?
 A designer clothing brand, the supply is heavily restricted while the demand is incredibly high creating a scenario in which some items get sold out within seconds. 
Any luck? None for me.
Ahh, thanks!
