Secpass - A simple password manager written in Python 3
It stores password locally encrypted using chacha20.

It's pretty simple and useful when you want to store passwords, but don't want a full blown application with many features you may or may not ever need or use.

https://codeberg.org/Light-Project/secpass
Such scripts should never be used as it's not support, not tested and not to be trusted. Writing may be fun, but for a critical functionality people should use something that can be trusted.
I suggest checking out linting tools, some function names and variable names don't conform with any case type known to programmers
No thank you.
As has been said a million times, security is the wrong area for people to practice their coding skills. Homemade password managers/encryption/etc should be the domain of experienced professionals. Especially if you are planning to share it for others to use.
Yeah, you probably shouldn't have posted anything to do with encryption here in this subreddit lol.



The only response this community is capable of when it comes to this kind of topic is screeching that it's not secure, not elaborating on why, won't mention what encryption is meant for this kind of project, not telling you what the issue(s) that should be fixed is, and won't help you in any way or point you to any resources.



I commend your efforts in making a password manager and I think it's pretty neat. I think it'll be just fine as long as the data has been encrypted in the right way according to the documentation for it recommends, etc.


(Now, I don't actually know what the right encryption method is as no one has told me, nor have I found an answer while searching the Internet for documentation, etc. So at least I can say sorry for not being able to help with figuring that out.)


Edit#1: Not to sure why OP deleted his comment/reply to my comment here.
It isn’t secure at all lol. chacha20 isn’t for this at all.
I understand where you are coming from and to be weary of using projects like this (I agree). However, if you are going to talk about it being trustworthy then I will say that it is opensource and you yourself can verify that it isn't doing anything sus and if it is set up properly. It also used pycryptodome and I highly doubt you will ever say that they aren't trustworthy.

When it comes to testing, you are more than welcome to start testing. Or you can send it to people who can test it and have it be tested, then the report sent back to the developer with what to change, how to fix things, etc. Instead of just mentioning that it needs to be tested and then doing nothing.
If you see someone with no medical knowledge attempting to perform open heart surgery for “learning purposes”, you can bet no doctor is going to come in and try to help them evaluate every mistake. They’ll just say “don’t do that, it’s dangerous”.

Edit: I didn't delete anything. Like I said later on in our discussion, it's clear you're just trolling.
What is wrong with ChaCha20Poly1305? ~~Many tools use it, notably rclone.~~ (edit: I was wrong, rclone uses XSalsa20Poly1305)
What would be the correct encryption algo to use?
We cant review the app and the every dependency for malicious  actions or security issues. We arent experts in the field and no end-user of such apps is expected to be.

As for testing I meant test coverage. This app has none. Then for a critical app like this you need more - procedures and solutions so that so users know new version of the app comes from the vendor and not third party. When vendor builds new release it also has to verify all dependencies werent tempered and so on.

I know this is a simple Python showcase from an enthusiast, but writing such critical functionality app as an enthusiast project is a bad idea.
The issue isn’t with it not being open source. It’s with people using something that was designed by a person with no knowledge of security best practices.
Well, that's open heart surgery, this is coding.

(this dude really just started an argument with me and deleted his account lol)
Hardware based symmetric encryption. I believe most use AES256. I mostly have experience with implementations for the Mac which is AES256. 

Basically u need the encrypted information and the decryption key to be detached from each other physically. One password does some cool stuff that I won’t pretend to know all the details on to make password vaults and use TPMs effectively.
It's not the crypto algorithm that makes it insecure, it's the implementation around the algorithm.   Any tiny detail done wrong makes the most secure encryption algorithm worthless.
It's fine as an enthusiast project. Some people can become experts this way. The important part is that nobody uses this in critical settings.

Also, rolling a password manager around a trusted crypto backend is not that error prone. This project isn't rolling its own crypto. It's using encryption as a tool.
Then I would love to see your attempt at making a password manager in python since you seem to be pretty knowledgeable. (Perhaps I or other could learn a thing or two about how to do things right)
And that's why I mentioned making sure it's set up correctly/properly.

(this dude really just started an argument with me and deleted his account lol)
Yeah, and what bad things could happen if your every password gets exposed. Surely there’s nothing dangerous about that.
I would never do one. I'm not an expert in security, cryptography nor do I have time and resources to make anything viable (and the requirements are insane).

 And the thing is - why a new one instead of using existing proven apps? We dont write code just for the sake of writing code. We write to generate value. UX, customer satisfaction and general business flow are things more and more developers experience in their jobs. Big salary means you generate even bigger income for the company through more sales or better customer retention and so on.
I’m a pretty solid python dev and I know that my cryptography knowledge is wholly insufficient to verify that it was “setup properly”, which I assume means “implemented correctly “
It’s not reasonable to expect every single person who uses a piece of OSS to “make sure it’s set up correctly” or to have the requisite security background to verify everything was done correctly.

Edit: I didn’t delete my account. WTF
And who's fault would that be?

The person who made the software not claiming it to be the best and done correctly, or the person who didn't check or do a bare minimum amount of effort?
It would be yours. Just like it would be your fault if you were performing open heart surgery without the experience and you caused problems.
Well, I'd think it'd be the hospitals fault for allowing me to do open heart surgery it even though I mentioned I'm not the best at it, etc.


Also you have to be one of the most hostile/agressive/extremely passionate people I've ever encountered on this subreddit so far. My god.
What governing body is “letting” you distribute unsafe code in this analogy?
If I were to make a password manager, I'd have a notice saying it hasn't been audited yet or verified yet so use at your own risk. If YOU or anyone still use it and something happens... that's on you.
That’s all irrelevant. The advice is to not make unverified security software. Most people want notice or know what it means to say that a password app is “unverified” or “unaudited”. So why even expose random people to security risks in the first place? Stop trolling.
Your advice is shutting the other person down. It's ok to write and distribute code that uses encryption, so long as you don't pretend it's secure/audited. Writing such apps can be educational and fun. I learned a lot about crypto this way.
That is an incoherent response. It doesn't make any sense to say that "advice" is "shutting the other person down". 

My advice is that someone shouldn't be trying to share security/cryptography code as an amateur project. Nobody has been shutdown from doing anything.

And nothing about learning how to write code requires you to advertise your code for other people to use. So there is no reason OP can't learn while also not giving people dangerous code to use. If you look at OPs post history, they have shared this same library across multiple subs. They really want people to use their code. Which is not good. Relatively speaking, this is not a safe place for you to store your passwords.
