Used "Py To EXE" and It Showed KeyLogger as One of Viruses
I made a tool using Python and wanted to convert it to EXE. I searched online and found an "Auto Py to EXE". It was on the PyPi page so I figured everything would be fine. Then I decided to just do a virus scan and found this: [https://imgur.com/a/wrifFzw](https://imgur.com/a/wrifFzw)

&#x200B;

Is there anyway I can do it manually? I don't know much about .exe files(Other than it's an executable) so sorry if that was a dumb question. 

Any trusted Py to EXE?
it's a false positive
This is a very known issue with py to exe. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54156685/virus-warnings-after-trying-to-run-py-program-converted-to-an-exe-file
An alternative is PyOxidizer. It's a Rust tool to build executables from python

https://github.com/indygreg/PyOxidizer
I get same when I tried to do it through pyinstaller
OP i had the same issue, turns out i was using python3 with pip install.  
Do python3 with pip3 install instead and all virus warnings are gone
I don’t think PyInstaller has these issues. Try that. You can even compile to one file
Probably because lot of ransomware tools in recent past used py2exe. It’s surprisingly easy to get POC for exploits in python (it’s very common in security space) and malware authors being lazy just copy POC code and make small modifications. Then run py2exe and get an executable to distribute to others. 


Also Windows and MacOS has become extremely strict while launching executables downloaded from internet or sometimes even locally built code, which is a good thing for lay people. However, if you want to cheaply distribute private software without investing a lot of money in App Store or code signing certificates you will have to educate your users to bypass these protections while running the application
Use Nuitka, works better:

[https://nuitka.net/](https://nuitka.net/)

[https://pypi.org/project/Nuitka/](https://pypi.org/project/Nuitka/)

pip install nuitka

pip install zstandard # (used by nuitka for compression)

You can compile you scripts with the next commands:

nuitka --onefile --standalone script.py

or

nuitka --onefile --standalone --windows-disable-console script.py
Would be interested in someone confirming but I'm sure as others have said it's down to it being seen in actual viruses and not that the tool itself is malware 

Makes sense that someone making malware in python would then use this tool to package it.
Why would it do that? Is the tool messing up?
Thank You!
Exactly, aren’t you concerned too. No clue why getting downvotes
Trying it now
auto py to exe is just a GUI wrapper for pyinstaller.
Key logging is one of the ways a virus/malware uses to capture information, which can then be used to then steal data or infect more machines.  As such antivirus programs will look for that type of code as a suspicious possible virus that it hasn't seen before and thus mark it as dangerous.

If it's your own code using the library then you know what it's doing and thus it's safe, however if it's something you downloaded off the internet then you have no idea what else it might do unless you look at all the code.  So an antivirus will just play it safe and mark things as dangerous and leave it up to you on what to do.
Apparently people use py to exe to make their python malware. That's why it gets flagged. If you submit it to windows defender on their website somewhere, they won't block it when someone downloads ur exe.
https://www.google.com/search?q=auto+py+to+exe+detected+as+virus
Likely because packaging Python up as platform-specific executables is an uncommon way to distribute Python programs. The whole point of Python is that it is interpreted - there's no work that has to be done in between writing a script, and running it, like you might have in c++ or rust. Because of this, 90% of the time Python code is distributed with the assumption that the user will provide Python to run the script.
Still says it. I wanted to let my friend use my code as he might need it. I might just tell him to install python and run it like that. I don't want to jeopardize his computer like that(Even if it is a false positive). Thanks for trying though!
That's why I'm so curious about it. I used the auto-py-to-exe GUI that converts it into an executable. Maybe it added some malicious code into there? I do have user inputs in my code also (Including a user inputting their email and password).

&#x200B;

Edit: Grammar
Oh damn…
It is uncommon sure, but the whole of software from Google and Dropbox is py2exe built.
Here is the thing, you have to do pip uninstall at all the packages and now install them again with pip3. Problem is that you are using python 3 with python 2 libs. That means you need to uninstall auto-py-to-exe, wheeler, pyinstaller, and everything you use on your script. 
I was having that problem because I used python32bit with old python libs. After using pip3 on everything and the latest version I didn't get flagged.
Also auto-py-to-exe is just a script for pyinstaller
Most likely there is no malicious code at all.

Rather, someone unrelated made their own malware and packaged it with the same tooling. Possibly many independent malware authors did so. Those eventually get reported to the antivirus maintainers and if they're lazy (and they often are) they will just block anything remotely similar to the malicious binaries. Which results in many false positives on all the legitimate software packaged using said tooling.

There is unfortunately very little you can do about it.
I've been trying to share a python program I made but I haven't gotten around to submitting it to Windows Defender. Also because everytime you update your program and remake the exe, you have to resubmit it to Microsoft to get them to unblock it. pretty mid.
Damn, thanks for the information! If it was just me, I would be comfortable using it. My friend however, I don’t want to put him in that situation at all. I’ll just let him know to download python and run the code that way!

Edit: Grammar 🤦🏽‍♂️
