Jupyter notebooks as PDF, MS Word and others killer

And all is needed is to add new features to the nbviewer python module.
ipynb's use of json to organize cells makes it a bit too rigid a format, I think, to be a true competitor to those you mention. It was made with a specific purpose, although it's true that Notebooks have been put to a great variety of presentation formats. R Markdown and KnitR, I think, does a better job of this, by sticking more closely to the general Markdown specification. 
Comment from removed post:

It's not actually about writing Markdown. It's about how to share it's html output securely (without worrying about malicious JavaScript) and conveniently. (And view html is better than PDF on both Mobile and desktop - for different reasons). And the proposed solution seems better to me than modern ebook formats with js.

Sharing documents directly is more convenient than hosting them. So the Jupyter on demand rendering on server (by link or upload) is a good thing. But design lacks and you should write a notebook instead of normal Markdown. But on Gitbook you have a nice design, plugins, maybe even security and normal Markdown but need to host a whole repo. Moreover: it's better to write Markdown in offline editor like Atom/VS Code. So it would be nice to have best of all: style, plugins, security and design from Gitbook, render single file on demand online like Jupyter, edit in Atom offline.

If to implement it all together as a ready to use solution - that would be a killer.
I also think that writing plain Pandoc Markdown is a better option. I chose ipynb as an a output format because it has decent python support, popular and can serve two purposes:

* be viewed by nbviewer online: here it can use only js plugins,
* be run in Jupyter: here it can also use python back end interactively.

P.S. I write Pandoc Markdown in Atom/Hydrogen then convert it to ipynb via pandoctools - very happy about it.
And I don't see how Jupyter format is rigid as it can have any Markdown and html inside Markdown cells and we can always convert Jupyter notebook to html or Markdown.

As about sticking to some Markdown spec: I think it's useless as there are infinite number of Markdown flavours if we are to use pandoc filters. And it's really nice to use them! So Jupyter notebook with it's Markdown flavour is no worse than any other if we treat it as output format for pandoc/pandoctools.
Well, there you have it: you write Markdown, then use ipynb as an intermediate format for a final viewer, which deconstructs the file into HTML. Why not go directly from Markdown to HTML? 
ipynb can serve two purposes:

1. be viewed by nbviewer online: here it can use only js plugins,
2. be run in Jupyter: here it can also use python back end interactively.

In order to achieve 2. via md/html we should define some Markdown standard that is later converted to ipynb. Maybe add some yaml blocks for every cell like notedown does it. And the main part: to add such md->ipynb converter to the Jupyter notebook. I bet it would be a plugin for Jupyter so in order to use that output format the end user should install additional python module.

It looks too bothersome to me. I prefer modify only nbviewer and go with current Jupyter Markdown standard.
By the way: I can even use pandoc-crossref when writing the document. Then export to Jupyter compatible Markdown. The fact that most of html is a valid Markdown is very convenient thing: I should not really bother about output Markdown flavor if I can export any flavor I like to that output Markdown flavor: absent features are simply exported as html (sometimes there are [bugs](https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/issues/4677) but they are eventually fixed).
By the way: do you know how convenient is python support in R Markdown?
Inserting python code is dead-simple (just put "python" at the beginning of the code block", but I'm not sure how good the rendering tools are for Python figure outputs for RMarkdown files. 
When I google it I see something [like this](https://stackoverflow.com/a/49556037/9071377). And it sounds as convenient as Stitch but far worse than Atom/Hydrogen (where I don't need to run the whole document to rerun the cell).
Good find! Thanks! 
I'm curious what you found useful: the inconvenient-looking workaround from stack overflow or maybe Atom/Hydrogen?

If the first one then I can suggest to try install Atom, Hydrogen and [file-watcher](https://atom.io/packages/file-watcher) that helps to simultaneously work in two editors (I use it for Atom/Hydrogen + PyCharm combo).

With this you can test and interactively run python chunks in Atom/Hydrogen. Then debug and save the document. After that go to R Markdown and knitr it.

But this might not be suitable if you need interoperation of R and Python... But it should be OK for Python only documents that do not rely on Jupyter specific functions (like displaying the last object in the code cell).

UPD

And you also might need custom markdown grammar that understands R-Markdown. The one from pweave may fit. But I guess there might be better alternatives.
Thanks for the tips! 
