Researchers Uncover Obfuscated Malicious Code in PyPI Python Packages

This might be a stupid question but why would anyone download a library called bingchilling2?
450 downloads for popular package typosquatting sounds like automated repo mirrors and probably not a serious problem, but you never know if someone "important" to the digital ecosystem has made a typo and is now pwned.
It is important to have a strong vetting process for including packages in serious projects. Otherwise we will end up with broken or even worse malicious dependencies.
[deleted]
I wonder if "they" (whoever they are) can just run a fuzzy finder over python packages and look for similarities. If the APIs of those two packages match then that would warrant further inspection.
I can see how those could work:

>httops is typosquat of https

>reqwests is typosquat of requests (that's and old one I know. Beware rustaceans!)

But this one gets over my head:

>tkint3rs is typosquats of tkinter

Like c'mon... Who made such a bad mistake and downloaded this one?
Do people download stuff in python and not look at it?
Fairly new to python, this is the second time in the last month that I hear packages have had malicious code in PyPI. What is the best approach to deal with this? Is there an alternative package manager or just the tried and true method of reading through the code?
I guess code-coverage tests now must include dependencies code-base too and optimize dependencies only to the stuff used by the dependent code and strip off the rest in an intelligible manner.. yo chatGPT .. hope you’re hearing..
Typeosquatting again.

This whole mess can be addressed with the following improvements to the Python ecosystem:

1. Pypi.org needs to implement some kind of Levenshtein distance and/or soundex style algorithm to flag or prevent false package names from being registered in the first place.  I recommend these two since they're dead-simple to implement and are better than nothing.  In general, more moderation of what gets added to the site is overdue.
2. Pip, along with setuptools and other Python package managers, need to embrace the `npm audit` approach by adding CVE checking to the tool.

And it's not just Python.   Unfortunately, supply-chain attacks were always possible but we're now way past the point of safely ignoring that. Every language ecosystem needs features like these, as once one language silo fortifies itself, attackers will move sideways into another silo to break in.
I used to think I was super slick in college because I would get my friends to “double check” my code by sending it to them to run on their own computers. My code had the assignment implemented along with a base64 encoded string hidden somewhere in it. The base64 string was encoded python code that would copy all the ssh keys on their computer and email them to me. Somewhere else in the actual code would decode the string and run it. 

I was a terrible person
PyPI is immature for anything but hobby work.
Just take care with automatic import resolvers which install automatically packages. For example pycharm did it. Always check the github readme. The most of malicious packages hasn't a readme.
This is happening everyday
Nice click farm you got going on.
As someone who has published some packages to PyPI, stuff like this bums me out because it just decreases the chances my stuff will ever be used.
Is it a play on the Chinese Mandarin for Ice cream ?
Because bingchilling did not work
Probably nobody did, aside from automated mirrors whose job is to store a copy of every package uploaded to PyPI.

This is just "we found a typosquatting package, reported it, and it was removed" hyped up into breathless sensationalism for clicks and views.
If someone gets a hold of someone's else pypi account, all they have to do to inject this code is to add this lib as dependency. This means the original lib installs without problem but malicious code gets executed due to new dependency's install script. Everything works, victim doesn't see any problem with their lib
who doesnt want an ice cream
The reworked bingchilling, now it's 150% faster
Maybe the solution is to link every download to a client email, so that once a malicious package is discovered, they can be alerted and perform their own forensics.
> but you never know if someone "important" to the digital ecosystem has made a typo and is now pwned.

That's the SOP.  It's just like phishing: it only has to work once for the right target.
This is not happening. Even if the direct dependencies are checked, I doubt that any bigger Javascript project checks the transitive hull.

Python is not as bad, but even there I doubt that many of big web projects check all their dependencies. It's just too expensive
It's also important to be careful if the project isn't that important, but you've got valuable stuff on your workstation. A lot of these malware attacks focus on stealing cryptocurrency. If you use your workstation to do things with crypto, then any untrusted code you run is a big risk, even if the project you're running it for isn't very important.
Agreed. Dependency changes need to be vetted in design , verified in code review, and security scanned in build/test before they ever make it into the main branch.
The analogy I usually use here is to go look at the spam folder of your primary email account. Take a scroll through what's in there. Lots of scams, lots of things that are trying to separate you from your money or your personal data or both.

Now, imagine if *every single one of those emails* had its own separate breathless "BREAKING: SECURITY THREAT UNCOVERED! MILLIONS AT RISK! TERROR IN THE INBOX!" story on a "news" site.

That's basically what this article is. People discovered they can farm clicks by writing up every single routine "we reported something to PyPI, and they took it down" as a world-shattering security apocalypse.

And I really wish that A) people would stop giving them the attention they crave, and B) they'd get shamed right out of the security community for continuing to do it.
> (e.g. genocide and everything else by Bart Thate / zelf) 

Looked this up, batshit crazy!
Wow, I did not realize there was a crazy person using pypi to host lunatic rants in their READMEs. Weird.
does the code even need to be run? i thought the installation of package was when the attack occured
> Who made such a bad mistake and downloaded this one?

"3" and "e" are right next to each other on a QUERTY keyboard, so maybe that's it?

> Beware rustaceans!

Oh no. You weren't kidding.  https://docs.rs/reqwest/latest/reqwest/
Bro. You know ppl download shit in every language if a stack post says it will work.
I mean, yes? I wouldn't download a package that I hadn't researched, but I don't always dive into the source files under a microscope. I use PyQt5, but I haven't taken the hours to piece it all together in my head at a code level. It's complex.
If I looked at all the libraries my various projects use and understood them enough to know there was nothing malicious in there, and did it again every time they are updated, I’d have like 2 hours of work week left to focus on coding.
I mean, it says 'obfuscated', and these are typosquatting packages... I think it goes without saying that this just capitalizes on inevitable human error and it could even happen to someone who just spent an hour reading the source of the real package and hitting a stray key while installing.
Yes. Personal experience. First thing i downloaded was  a background remover. Had no idea how to run python, thought it would run like a .bat.. Few months later, now I look at what I download. There was definitely an initial "find something cool on github and see what happens if I run it" phase
Do the same thing you do with any website: only visit sites that are reputable and make sure the address you type is correct.

We forget that search engines largely fixed this for the web. They will figure out which sites are actually relevant, identify likely typos and show results for what you probably want, and let you click a link rather than type in the address, preventing you from making a mistake when typing it in.

When trying out new packages, I have generally discovered them from sites that I already trust, so that covers most issues.

The more difficult case is when something that was trustworthy ceases to be so. This happens in all areas of life - not just open source software. Maybe the owner has a change of heart, maybe ownership is transferred to somebody else, or maybe somebody manages to illegitimately get control over the product. Whatever the case, they usually manage to cause havoc until people realize what is happening, but then the community quickly shuts it down. These are the high profile stories you hear about that quickly make the news because these are the ones that really matter.

One way to avoid that issue is to treat upgrading a package just like installing it for the first time. You vetted the previous version, but what has changed since? Can you trust the current version? You shouldn't assume so.

For old or rarely updated projects, I will check the repo to see what has changed. If I see some recent changes to something that hasn't been updated in years, I'm suspicious. If I have time, I'll see what has changed. If not, I simply won't use the new version.

It all comes down to reputation and trust, just like all other parts of life. Word of mouth is a good indicator of reputation (even if it's not perfect). Counterfeits exist, so look closely to see that it is genuine. If you aren't sure, be suspicious and look closely. Learn to judge how trustworthy software is just like you would learn to judge a person.
This exact same issue has existed for years with domain names. Yet we don't get breathless TERROR TERROR BE AFRAID BILLIONS AT RISK BE AFRAID headlines for every single typosquatted domain name someone finds, and so you don't think to yourself that you need some sort of alternative to avoid all the "problems".
Ultimately it's about deciding who you trust.

Flask is a project that does things right here, so I'll talk about them. They have a small team working on Flask (small enough that they know and trust each other, but big enough that no single person can sabotage the project), most of whom have at least a bit of a public profile, and they're very careful about adding new dependencies to the project (last time I checked, all the dependencies were maintained by people in the team).

So I'm pretty confident that if I install Flask, as long as I spell it right, I'm not getting malware.

When you're considering adding a new dependency to your project, look at who's maintaining it, and decide whether you trust them, and whether you trust the people who maintain its dependencies and transitive dependencies.
The problem is tests never test all possible combinations even if you have 100% code coverage so you would remove some dependencies that may be used in production but not in tests
> Typeosquatting

You are typosquatting the word typosquatting.
 I think pypi needs to bifurcate into a vetted pro repository versus community, at least. I probably don't want Johnny's networking tools in my software. If I can cut the community user repo, I feel 50% confident. I started to use require hashes and the hashin tool which adds hashes to requirements.

You can hash all day long, it was gonna be a non-compiled run-time scripted language that exposes typo-squat malware. Python is not the first and last language for this. Pypi just dunders the situation. Wheels? The system is so fast it's dangerous. There's a gazillion ways to deploy python. It's that handy, it's that scary.
You sound like a shitty friend.
This is not the brag you think it is
You are a criminal. You committed computer hacking and theft. You're not just a shitty friend, you belong behind bars.
90% of the machine learning industry would like a word...
What if *I like bingchilling*?
and all up until bingchilling 26
Meh, prefer ignorance
Malicious af
You don't need a PyPI account to use this malicious package, merely adding an `import bingchilling2` into any one of 100 `.py` files and a `requirements.txt` in some codebase somewhere is enough to spring it.
Maybe the solution is to have a mailing list that people could SUBSCRIBE to where things like this are announced?
What is 'transitive hull'? Dependencies of dependencies?
> This is not happening. Even if the direct dependencies are checked, I doubt that any bigger Javascript project checks the transitive hull.

While opt-in, `npm audit` is a thing.  It scans the entire project dependency graph for known package vulnerabilities.  Combined with a lockfile, it provides some decent free security.  I can't speak to who is or isn't using it, but I don't know why anyone wouldn't.

> Python is not as bad, but even there I doubt that many of big web projects check all their dependencies. It's just too expensive

I would argue that we don't have the community tooling to make it cheap.  We all solve computable problems with software after all so, why not solve it?  That or I'm in the dark here and such a tool does exist and I don't know about it.
This analogy may be somewhat outdated. Some people these days use cloud providers with some robust spam protection, or their primary communication method is a messenger app of some kind.
Lol.  They have made a bit of a fuss about it.
[deleted]
To be clear, the rust package "reqwest" currently is a completely legitimate, maintained package for making requests. The rust package "request" has not been maintained in years, is missing async features but still does what it says on the box.
Still, there's an extra `s` at the end and `tkinter` has been in standard library for a while now!
Every major CLI tool: "To install, just curl the installer script and pipe it into `sudo sh`."
Gnarly dude, I guess I'm more careful.
You don't need to. What is it is using and why is all you need with python.
More like 2 hours of work *year*…
That's not how code works.
LOL.  It stays.  Too ironic to change.
I can get behind that.  There's clearly room for a non-profit or SaaS curated repo mirror to sidestep these kinds of problems.    You could also add LTS to that offering too in order to curtail package churn.  Kind of like how Linux distros handle their packages.  In the end, putting more eyeballs on the problem can help, but it'll cost and maybe that's worth it.
It builds character
Yes because “I used to think I was super slick” always indicates a brag
he's a fool he thinks he's l33t
I know right. It doesn't make any sense. How can a service that is so immature have so much traction. Thank goodness for Anaconda.
Of course. But no one is gonna install such a thing on their own. So the main vector of attack is via getting pypi accounts of popular packages' maintainers so all people installing/updating the popular package get infected. Usually malicious stuff done in setup script of the package as well, no import line needed.

I analysed a case like that once, the malicious package had way less suspicious name (algorithmic) and was already gone by the time I could take a look, but infected package's history on pypi showed old files. setup.py had added one line: `install_requires=['algorithmic']`
That sounds like the same thing. I'm not going to subscribe to something like a general python-packages-issues mailing list, but if there were a configuration option for pip that would allow me to automatically subscribe my email address to a mailing list specifically for security issues for an individual package, for each package I download, then I might do that.
The problem with typosquatting is that downstream devs *don't even know they have made the mistake*. If they see an email saying "hey, package `typosquattr` is a trojan", their first reaction is "ahaha, I use `typosquatter`, my shit is flawless, sucks to be them". Maybe one in a million will go back and diligently check all their bazillion requirements.txt; and even then they could find nothing, because it might have been a one-off fetch.

Whereas, if they received an email saying "in the past you downloaded package `typosquattr`, which we found to be malicious. You last downloaded it on dd/mm/yyyy at HH:MM", they'd all go back and check wtf they were doing at the time, find which systems were affected, and rotate all they need to rotate.
a.k.a. [transitive closure](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transitive_closure)... so yeah, that.
The robust spam protection is how it ends up in the spam folder...
They're using `setup.py` hooks to execute obfuscated Python code (probably a base64-encoded, zipped package).

I suspect the best automated tool would be a blacklist of nuked packages on the Cheeseshop that could be checked every time you modify your dependencies.
Yeah that's why I mentioned the malicious `reqwests` python package compared to the well known and used rust's `reqwest` crate! Easy to mess up if you coming from rust as it'll sound familiar
They wont even point to a specific git sha, its always just some random blob or master. Piping the internet into your shell, what could go wrong?
In fairness, users complain if there isn't an install script and they have to manually type `cp`.
Cap
You can see a package importing requests quite near the top of the file, and the package claims to be for connecting to particular company's API feed. So, you feel that's safe?
True.  I literally use Java, JavaScript, Node, Python, and R weekly.

I could literally never understand all the libraries I use in my lifetime.
No way you can work out everything a complex package is doing in an hour of browsing the source code.
Lol, dude what? Did you even read what I said?
So does federal prison.
You should be behind bars
Thank you
This guy computer sciences
nah, its killed before it reaches you
He's an idiot... my comment was literally about making a typo AFTER reading the source code. That's the entire point of this article.... typosquatting.
Daniel, is that a weed?!
I Google well. I would not have thought to use this term, though I have heard it before.
I wouldn't want an email provider deleting or never delivering my emails without me being able to review what was filtered. I often get legitimate emails initially flagged as spam. Thus, the spam folder. Not sure what you think is dated about this approach.
They only kill it if they're absolultey sure. Wouldn't that be obvious to you?

I get email spam but it's like 0-2 messages in my spam folder at any given timen when I remember (weekly? monthly?) to look , not the pile of emails situation OP was alluding to. OP probably doesn't use cloud email and has some kind of "old school" setup, and doesn't understand modern systems.
Make sure not to use any of the big mainstream email providers then.
Again, I'd prefer to be the one who decides who is absolutely sure. I just looked at my cloud system email spam folder and I have 5 just from today. This is on an email that started with gmail beta program before publicly available. It has been around. One email I actually was mildly interested in that I wouldn't consider spam. Sure, the vast majority is bullshit, but I'd still like to see it if desired. Mine fully delete after 30 days. I currently have 70 in there. The notion this is outdated is what I take issue with. It works quite well for me.
I assure you, I don't need advice on how to manage emails. I just don't get your point or how it is outdated.
It's outdated because there are (according to Google) 90bn spam emails sent every single day and big email providers don't want to waste money on bandwidth and other resources by handling them all the way to your junk folder. Why would they?
If the email arrives at the server to scan, it's already there. Sure, the minuscule amount of bandwidth it takes to show me it in my junk folder adds up, but that's hardly much on the grand scale of things. And they should because like in my example, things get incorrectly identified as spam.
> hardly much on the grand scale of things

Remember we're talking about Gmail and providers like that, so you are talking about moving literally billions of files around every day. Which costs real money, because now you need to scale servers up and out to get something which you know is spam to someone who doesn't want it? The stuff you get to look at (your false negatives) got through because it wasn't 100% definitely spam.
