Phylum Discovers Dozens More PyPI Packages Attempting to Deliver W4SP Stealer in Ongoing Supply-Chain Attack

So is this the source for the stealer being used?

[https://github.com/loTus04/W4SP-Stealer](https://github.com/loTus04/W4SP-Stealer)
As always, these are typosquatting packages. They are not hostile takeovers of real packages you actually use, they are people opportunistically hoping to catch someone who either typos a package name or is fooled by some sort of "packageyouwanted-2-xp-pro-awesome-usethisoneinstead" name into actually installing it.

As always, mandatory PGP signing of packages would not prevent this (the people uploading these could just create PGP keys to use to sign their packages). As always, changing how Python package installation works would not prevent this (since sooner or later you're going to run the thing you installed packages for). As always, enforcing some kind of levenshtein or similarity rule on package names would not prevent this (it would prevent legitimately similarly-named packages, and malicious actors would switch to using names that are just different enough, with likely the same success rate).
Does Anaconda help with this?
The cavalier attitude of just having that (and their other stuff) just sitting on GitHub...

Wow.
Not surprising that the code seems to be mostly garbage (while probably still working just enough to be trouble, as is typical). Doesn't even try to run on anything other than Windows for instance. A malware campaign made by teenagers.
> w4sp Stealer official source code, one of the best python stealer on the web

Lmao this malware is just some 15 yo's attempt at putting together a few python tutorials, I wouldn't call that 'one of the best python stealer on the web'

Also, I'm pretty sure they're from the [jeuxvideo.com](https://jeuxvideo.com) forums, a bunch of high school nerds who think they're the french equivalent of 4chan
Maybe it’s too drastic a step for the ecosystem, but one possible solution is the Arch approach. PyPi could be divided into a two sets of packages. 

One set would be a group of standard packages (requests, pandas..etc) that are signed by a number of core python developers. And another set would be unsigned or self-signed for newer, niche or less used packages. Like the distinction between Arch packages via Pacman and AUR packages. The former is vetted and signed by core Arch members, while the latter gives you a larger selection if you need it.

This doesn’t solve the problem completely, but would reduce the attack surface in a significant way.
Namespacing would be an avenue to atleast curb this. 

Another would be introducing an automated Levenshtein distance check that would flag on some threshold for manual review or just straight up blocking (since manual review would cause a shitload of work for pypi that they're probably not equipped to handle). Maybe with an exception for "it's the same user that owns both" in the case of popular packages intentionally typosquatting to avoid this kind of attack.
yeah a repo problem needs a repo solution, the levenshtein rule would be nice

edit: ok that's not what you said then i disagree, it would still be better than no solution at all
If you only use conda install and only use Anaconda's channels then yes as they are the gatekeepers on what goes on those channels.

However if you use pip or install from a non-Anaconda channel such as conda-forge then no.

Also their channels are restricted for commercial use, at the time of writing if you are in a company of 200 or more employees then you must pay for usage: https://legal.anaconda.com/policies/en/?name=terms-of-service
Literal teenagers. In his about repo he states his name as 16.

I have to say: I'm a bit impressed. I did way more stupid shit as 16 year old.
> A malware campaign made by teenagers.

There is a precise definition for this, it's been used for ages: *script kiddies.*
I don't think this really accomplishes what you think it will, in a repository like PyPI. Anyone who voluntarily restricts their usage to just the official-special-verified-trusted-authoritative-good package list is someone who already wasn't going to be a victim of one of these scam packages, because "typosquatting" is a bit of a generous description -- they're not even "typos", they're more mashups of popular package names and extra versions. And anyone who was going to be a victim of one of these was already not going to restrict themselves to a curated set of specially-verified packages. Even if you have to pass a hundred different "Yes I really know, really let this pwn me, really I mean it" configuration flags, they'll copy/paste those in because it gets their install unblocked.
Levenshtein doesn't work. To see why, imagine that tomorrow Google announces a new version of HTTP that they call HTTP4. The popular Python `requests` library doesn't yet support it, so I publish a wrapper module adding HTTP4 support. The obvious name for it is `requests-http4`. One of the malicious modules in this article was named `requests-httpx`. Please inform me how your Levenshtein distance filter will differentiate the two of them.

Namespacing also does not work to prevent this. If I can trick you into installing `popularpackage-2-utils`, then I can just as easily trick you into installing `popularmaintainer-extras/popularpackage-2-utils`.
pip install levenstein-yes-definitely-real-package-i-promise
Read my comment again: I said a similarity/levenshtein rule **would not prevent this problem**.

One of the packages in question was named something like "requests-httpx", which is a mashup of two different package names for making HTTP requests. If you set up a levenshtein-distance rule which catches *that* as a match of either "requests" or "httpx", you're going to have a huge number of false positives, too.
>Also their channels are restricted for commercial use, at the time of writing if you are in a company of 200 or more employees then you must pay for usage:

There are exceptions:

> Anaconda reserves the right to discontinue or alter any or all of the Repository. To avoid confusion, “commercial activities” are any use of the Repository which is NOT:
> 
> -    use solely by an individual using for personal, non-business purposes,
> -    use by a student or employee of an educational institution in connection with educational activities,
> -    use by an employee or volunteer on behalf of a non-profit institution in connection with the provision of charitable services,
> -    use by a 501(c)(3) non-profit research institution in connection with non-commercial activities, such as research to address societal needs and global challenges, public policy development, or the advancement of science for the general good, where such work will not result in revenue to the institution, or use by entities in common control with each other with fewer than 200 employees in aggregate.

Obviously, this is current as-of the date this comment was posted.
I think there will always be a class of people who will run hurdles over every conceivable guardrail and fall off a cliff.

But I feel like you’re being a tad bit cynical. In between the former hopeless group and the group of people who would never fall for this kind of trap, there is a crowd of developers who could “be saved” as easily as they could be victims, that is if this course of action isn’t available by default.  People are more susceptible to “pip install requestz” because “pip install” is a muscle memory. 

If we want people to be more paranoid, we should give them more indicators that raise suspicion.
Okay you asked how it would help your http4 vs httpx scenario. 

That’s easy. 

Instead of installing blah-blah-httpx, I’d be asked to confirm I didn’t mean “blah-blah-http4”. I would then say “oh whoops, who knows what httpx is. Sure glad I didn’t install it by mistake!”  

I agree that at some point developers just have to think before we do things, but this absolutely catches some edge cases. It makes malicious actors work harder which definitely limits the number who can successfully trick someone.
I am once again asking that people actually look at the package names and pause to think through the things that need to happen in order to end in someone typing one of those names after `pip install`.

A curated package set won't solve it. PGP signing won't solve it. Maintainer namespaces won't solve it. Levenshtein checking won't solve it.
> I would then say “oh whoops, who knows what httpx is. Sure glad I didn’t install it by mistake!”

Well, [httpx is a real and trustworthy package](https://pypi.org/project/httpx/), providing a mostly drop-in replacement for `requests` (but with some extra features like an async interface). Many projects now are adding it as a dependency.

That's why `requests-httpx` was one of the malicious package names.
Man it is very easy to write urlib instead of urllib, even a .1% error rate might be huge on some packages. So it is not unreasonable to request more safeguards.
Using an IDE or other GUI to install Python packages is more common than you think, and those often only list the package name and version in the main area.
Right? Thats probably the best example I can think of too. Just missing that one 'l', which is tough as shit to catch for a lot of folks, seems like something that could happen to even an experienced dev. 

If urlib was an invalid package, no big deal, the IDE catches it and they correct. If it is valid however though, and mimics the same functionality as urllib, it could take a while to catch.
And for cases like that, PyPI can do one-off fixes. But a general Levenshetein-distance restriction would not fix the package names given in this article, and would catch many, many more false positives, as I've pointed out multiple times now.
