3 New Malicious Packages Found on PyPI

[deleted]
Fantastic work.

Why would pypi not do this?
[removed]
> normal.exe

lol. may as well name your malware `nothing-to-see-here.exe`
How does a newbie learning python like myself protect himself from this?  Basically only download the popular packages?
We just can’t have nice things lol
[deleted]
Where can I found it and how I get rid of it?
They’re probably internal package names they found on an internal source disclosure somewhere or typos they found in a GitHub
Thank you for doing the Lord’s work here.
🤣 who tf downloads these? Do people use a randomizer for package installs or something?
PyPI is run by ~3 people, none of whom are anywhere close to full time. In terms of full-time hours spent on it, it's maybe like 1/10th of a person. If you would like to see this change, get your company to donate to the PSF. I burned out on it and was fortunate to have Ee ready to take my place but seriously FOSS infra is held together with duct tape and baling wire.
I will say my approach was super manual and ridden with false positives. But you make a fair point, some of these checks could be automated and more finely tuned.

I expect the answer is that this takes time and money to do and there’s not really much to be made by flagging these packages and getting them removed or even automate checks during upload.
PyPI is still very much a work in progress, and very community driven. This work takes time, but it seems like security is one of the top priorities of the PSF. I really want PyPI to support namespaces for packages so no malicious actors can squat on project names (like Github orgs). PSF has a [fundables page](https://github.com/psf/fundable-packaging-improvements) where they are seeking funding to add features to the python packaging ecosystem.
Literally anyone can upload anything to pypi, there is no curation.
[deleted]
It's almost certain to already have happened. Hopefully just not with such a popular package.
you probably wont actually need to worry about it very often

ive been writing python pretty much every day for a couple years and very rarely have needed a package that wasnt something that is very well known

edit: but yes while youre still very new probably just avoid pip installing things that arent large open source projects
in addition to what /u/bin-c  said, if you *are* using some random small niche module, **read through it**.  It will help you learn, understand the module API/classes, and potentially catch malicious code.

If you find compiled executables among the module, scan it or upload to something like Virus Total.
Am also a newbie and can see from the other non-answers the general approach is "oh well, I am probably smarter than this so there's a chance this will not happen to me, good luck to the rest of y'all"
It's a hard problem, and the closest you can come to solving it is policy. 

I've worked in some places where they have a policy of "you can only use packages that have been vetted and approved by our tech lead/security team/architecture board", which is a tricky policy to get right, but can be a useful guard rail.

Another policy, that you don't see as much these days but can still make sense, is "don't use anything we haven't paid for". Despite Python being open source, it's entirely possible (and arguably a good idea, for some organisations) to pay for support. This can be through commercial Python distributions, like ActiveState or (nowadays) Anaconda, or by using the Python interpreter and libraries that are packaged up with your Linux distro and paying for support for that. Using the interpreter and libraries that are included with your distro is unpopular these days, because it limits you to just the libraries and versions that have been packaged up. But in this case, that limitation is kinda the point. Note also that whilst most distros ship "old" versions of stuff, they do backport security fixes for these old versions - for example the Python 2.7 in Ubuntu 18.04 includes a fix for CVE-2021-3177, which PSF Python 2.7 does not.
Review the source code for the package before you use it and understand what it’s doing. Will help you learn more
If you need to do Something, don't just run `pip install something` without first checking that the `something` package is actually published by the people you think it is.
It's the npm catastrophe all over again
[deleted]
I do this, I'm totally new to programming
Thank you for your service.

It must feel pretty good to know that mullions of people are grateful, even if they don't know it.
Also, how would PyPI receive funding, how could people contribute?
They aren't, those are from aggressive mirroring servers. If you check the user agent strings I would guess the only two humans who have installed these are the author of the packages and the OP.
Turns out `flask` executes any command as root as long as you say please
to add to what he added, make reading other people's code a habit, not only when you need to check out a maybe sketchy library 

in my experience there's been a big difference in working with people who are quick to read code vs people who arent

example: something isnt in the documentation. dev A goes through the source code, dev B googles it.

in some cases, dev B will get the answer quicker. but he wont understand the library any better and more importantly, he's seen far far far fewer examples of production code. 

getting used to reading & learning from other people's code can be hard or frustrating at first, but its a very worthwhile investment. when you get to the point where you can look at source code and get what you need from it relatively quickly, you're almost guaranteed to have a good grasp of:

- the language being used
- best practices
- various design patterns
Well, ultimately, yeah. Basically every time you see a headline screaming at you to be terrified because of “malicious packages on PyPI” it comes down to someone who’s hoping they can trick you into installing something. 99% of them are trying to squat typos of popular package names, and get taken down quickly anyway. The only real point of these articles is to generate clicks for the authors — if you’re already following good practices around your dependencies, you will never be affected by one of these.
No, it isn't. There has been no compromise of either PyPI or any community accounts, someone just uploaded some malware to an open-access system that accepts uploads from anyone.
how do you typo a 0 tho, that literally never happens. They could go with aws_login_tools, aws_loginntools or aws_loginmtools, but aws_login0tools makes no sense (if your goal is to scam people)
Be very careful what python libraries you install since there's basically no protection. I'm no expert but I always Google the package and if there's not enough about it I don't install it. I use snyk.io often.
Anyone can donate to the Packaging team at https://donate.pypi.org (which is just a special category of donation to the PSF). But really funding isn't our limited factor, our amazing infrastructure sponsors give us enough free or highly discounted stuff to run the site. What we lack is time.

The source code for PyPI is all up at https://github.com/pypa/warehouse and 100% in favor of community pull requests. We've got a few of the simpler issues triaged under https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22 or you can jump on IRC or Discord to talk to the PyPA team.
[deleted]
There is an existing aws-login-tool package and 0 is one key over from a - on a US keyboard. Pretty simple typo to make for a touch-typist who is not paying attention.
Could this happen on vscode? I’m relatively new and just install packages there.
ah then it makes sense
Honestly I don't know, I'm barely more than a beginner myself and don't use VSCode but I'd be careful and stick to the well known packages regardless.
[deleted]
Hmmm okay. Yeah idk, I figure Microsoft screens the plugins for vscode since they’re essentially hosting them (I think?). I’ve seen other platforms use the plug-in stuff and they typically have a “screened” selection of plugins then a bunch of “unscreened” plugins that you have to accept liability for.
Why are you following me to other subs, you creep?
Just remember that "screened" doesn't necessarily mean someone has read every line of code. Apple and Google supposedly screen their app stores but have had plenty of instances of malicious content slipping through
[deleted]
Lol you’re the guy from coronavirus pa sub… go away troll.
