A tool to crowd-source the banning of malicious IPs from Linux servers.
I've been working on this site for the last few weekends to turn a script I made months ago into a community resource for detecting known IPs of known bots.
If anyone is interested, I would LOVE to get some feedback. I am currently building out restful methods to construct a "threat level" for each address, so that users can pull down only the threat level they desire.
Anyway, here's the link: https://loudtree.net

Update:  I have taken a number of the suggestions and implemented them (like ditching the self-signed cert, and OSS-friendly source control for the client script).  I'll hash some more out tomorrow.  Thank you to those who replied!
[deleted]
[removed]
Why would you self sign your certificate for your live site?
Where was the code source? The dude makes a lot of good points but don't take the site or the code down, putting the code up is how you got the very useful feedback in the first place, that's the point of OSS, you can get help, provided you've done the initial legwork first.
Thank you very much for your post.  

I am going to take all of your advice, make a checklist, and work through the problems one by one.  

Feedback of this type is exactly why I posted it on here.  It's obviously very, VERY early in development and the script wasn't originally intended for mass consumption, so I'll end up rewriting it.  As far as the cert it concerned, I'm working on getting that.

Again, thank you for taking the time to respond.
That is a great idea!  Writing a new client that integrated with fail2ban would make this a far more viable tool for people to use.  This will be investigated at my earliest opportunity.


Thanks!

I'm working on that.
Came here to say this.
Thanks for the advice. NeedsMoreTests made some very good points indeed.  I have no intention of taking it down, as I have plenty of logic in place to prevent abuse of the API - 99.99% of the work on this project was done server-side.   The client script is far and away the worst and most jank-a-riffic part (I've known that since I wrote it, but it worked and I wanted to focus my attention elsewhere in the project).

It is trivial to roll back detected API abuse, and when the logic is completely fleshed out for weighting how likely an IP is to be a malicious source, it won't matter anyway, as that will be on a per-user basis.

I'll make the server-side code public once it's a bit more mature (as of this moment, the code contains some hard-coded values that shouldn't be there, among other problems).
Try StartSSL, it's free and recognized by the majority.
Thanks - I found them last night when I was looking for a free one, but they were doing maintenance.  I'll follow through with it posthaste. 
SSL in place.  Thanks for the feedback, friend.
