Poisoned Lolip0p PyPI Packages

Mamma always said don't take candy from strangers
So much for 'Don't reinvent the wheel'
Honestly, I’m not sure I’d touch any new Python code these days. It’s just way too easy to sneak malware into the PyPi repositories.
This is the risk you take with open source but ultimately I don't mind it.
Where are the 23 comments? I only see three.
This lol
These are all always typosquatting packages. Nobody's compromised an actual thing that people use. Your setup that didn't have malware yesterday still won't have malware today.

(the download counts that always get reported in these articles are always inflated due to caching/mirroring copies of PyPI that auto-download everything, similar to npm and other package indexes)

The best analogy I can come up with is to imagine that someone wrote a breathless BREAKING NEWS TERRIFYING ATTACK MILLIONS AT RISK story for every single phishing/scam attempt that gets filtered into your email account's spam folder, because that's about what these packages are -- like a phishing email, they are attempting to trick you into thinking they're legitimate, but they have a harder time than a phishing email does because generally your dependencies are already written down somewhere and so the typosquat version has way more work to do in hopes of getting you.
The changes they have planned seem reasonable and on-par with protections that other packing systems use.

It is interesting that some of these hacks maybe targeting specific orgs by creating a pypi package with a name that matches an internal package. The attack is sophisticated enough they know the package names used by the target system, perhaps via a source code leak, then they create malware packages on pypi with the same name.

I think it shows the importance of making sure dev systems like source control are properly secured with 2fa and password rotation to prevent password reuse.
typosquatting can happen on any repo. js, R, rust, python, you name it.
Install snyk

It's built to find vulnerable packages

Scans your git repo
What does open source have to do with it? Bad actors can happen with most models.
That’s not what happened if you read the article. In at least some of these instances the attackers are using a much more sophisticated attack where they know internal package names used by the target orgs, perhaps from source code leaks. Then they are creating malware packages with the same name that get picked up because the current pip package resolver gives precedence to pypi packages over internal packages. It is a targeted attack.

As an example your company uses customlib123 package that is not published to pypi, the attackers somehow identify that package name through a separate compromise and then create pypi package customlib123 with malware payload. Then when a dev runs pip install the resolver will fetch the malware package from pypi.

It’s not a simple typosquatting.
What are the changes?
I like snyk too, but even it doesn't catch zero-days.
Less likely to happen on paid services imo
No, this article is about three name/typosquatting packages:

> This time FortiGuard team discovered a similar zero-day attack in three PyPI packages (Python Package Index) called “colorslib,” “httpslib,” and “libhttps.” These sound familiar, But, none of these are real Python programs.

The article also referenced the earlier PyTorch issue, which was due to PyTorch trying to mix and match multiple package indexes in an unsafe way and someone taking advantage of it. But these three packages appear to be just more normal everyday "hope I can trick you into installing this instead of what you meant" stuff.

Which, again, is about the level of the phishing scams in my spam folder. Could they lead to serious consequences if I fall for one of them? Sure. Is every single one of them worth a breathless BREAKING SECURITY NEWS ALL EMAIL EVERYWHERE POTENTIALLY COMPROMISED MILLIONS AT RISK CRITICAL INCIDENT BE AFRAID TERROR TERROR article? Not even close.
There’s a link describing them if you click through the article.
Yea i wonder how it logs malicious packages
How come?
More likely if you're not able to read the code. They have stand a much better chance of getting away with it.
The PyTorch type incident described in the article is what I am talking about, and PyPi is working on a new dependency resolver to help mitigate those types of attacks.
PyP**I** is the *index*. PyP**A** are the maintainers of the `pip` package manager. The changes you're talking about would need to happen in `pip`, not in the package index, since there's nothing the main package index can do if you explicitly tell your installer to use a different/extra one.
These are the changes I’m talking about 

https://www.activestate.com/blog/pypi-security-pitfalls-and-steps-towards-a-secure-python-ecosystem/?utm_source=thenewstack&utm_medium=website&utm_content=inline-mention&utm_campaign=platform
The "new pip dependency resolver" [came out in 2020](https://blog.python.org/2020/11/pip-20-3-release-new-resolver.html). As you can probably tell by the PyTorch incident in December 2022, it does not magically prevent the multi-package-index issue they ran into.

The mandatory 2FA for "critical" packages does not prevent typosquatting.

Introducing TUF does not prevent typosquatting.

etc.

And the article you linked is itself from early 2021.
