Python Script EXE detected as virus in VT
Hey Everybody,   


I'm creating from a python script, with Pyinstaller ,an exe file, but when I insert it to Virus total for testing it detects it as a virus in many viruse detections softwares.   


I have tried to solve it with nukita, several guides I found but nothing worked.   


Anyone has any advice?
LOL , I write malware with PyInstaller and it’ll definitely trigger an AV Alert. 

Check your META information of the generated PE ; refer to the following YARA rule : 

https://github.com/Yara-Rules/rules/blob/master/malware/MALW_Pyinstaller.yar
It is flagged as a virus not only by AV. Apparently you need to compile on that machine that will use the exe, or you need a code signing certificate. Its all down to politics basically.
It's detected as a virus because it doesn't have a matching root certificate. The same thing happens when my friends try to download my apps, which are not viruses. It's just the way that AVS works. You look to see if a program has the signed certificate and if it doesn't then it's a virus, whether it's malicious or not.
You can use a safe flag and that works well. If you spend a bit of time going it there was a couple of useful stack overflow posts. Check the comments because that's where the good shit was

Edit: found the quote and it wasn't a comment.

"I solved it by using the pyinstaller --clean option every time I built the executable"

Edit 2: I the exe is larger though
Reminds of a time I needed to allow access to other peripherals . Try going to your windows virus and threat protection and select the py file you choose allow it access. This way your system won’t discriminate against it. This should work.
Try packaging stuff in shiv? Then just install python and a short script that'll open it. I've yet to have any anti malware software flag a zipapp or related.
Maybe is your python script deleting or related stuff doing in computer?
Maybe that cause Detect as Virus
Wait what? The check basically says: If PyInstaller created it, it’s a virus!

Am I reading this right?
You're a virus, unless you pay me?
I also solved this by removing my custom icon.
Former security researcher here - this is an old battle.  Certain AV products will just flag everything that fits a particular pattern if they see an uptick in usage of a tool that matches the code pattern used by malware writers.

Case in point, when bandwidth was more of a challenge it wasn’t uncommon to use various compression tools to reduce the size of the PE file when compiling

When malware authors started using those tools AV companies started just flagging everything that used those tools.  This was in the 1990s and had been going on in one form or another for years.

I’ve always been a fan of behavioral detection over pattern matching but behavioral is harder for AV companies and sysadmins.
Yes, because apparently a good chunk of malware is created with pyinstaller.

Since AV software doesn't know what the python code does but it *does* recognize the pyinstaller signature it's likely going to flag anything like that as malware.

How good would AV software be if it sees a program that has to potential of being a virus and then says “*let's  give it the benefit of the doubt?*”
Yes
Google won’t even let you email a script in the email because it sees it potentially threatening.
That logic doesn’t work out. 

Following thru we would have to flag software created via GNU GCC, Microsoft Compilers, Rust, Go, probably various Java compilers and a whole slew of other tools
As a result everybody has now seen.. like 10 AV false positives and are starting to get desensitised..

If your AV gives too many false positives, then it's basically useless because people start to ignore it a and the malware will get past anyway. Either that or you block some critical app the customer needs and they will uninstall or silence the AV so that their computer would not be literally useless.
You can always buy a code signing certificate. 

That should get rid of most of these problems
That’s a different reason, they’re trying to avoid social engineering. 

> YourInvoice.doc.vbs
That’s a good idea, but I believe it works differently for PyInstaller. PyInstaller doesn’t actually compile your code, it puts your code into an exe file with a bootloader. The bootloader extracts the code and runs it though a bundled interpreter. But the boot loader is always the same, so the AV is recognizing the shared bit of binary data and yelling at that. With the compilers you mention, they compile the whole thing to an exe, so the vast majority / all of the program is just determined by the code being compiled.
Not flagged as a virus but you get the untrusted source pop up when you got to install it.
It’s a matter of statistics. Practically any executable is written with a C compiler, so finding an executable with a C runtime attached doesn’t mean a lot. But find enough malware “compiled” into an .exe with pyinstaller and you can expect it to be added to a blacklist.

Do you really think AV producers think pyinstaller is a virus? Because that’s the alternate explanation . Does that make more sense to you?
Nicely done.
Can't malware authors buy code signing certificates?
If extensions are hidden (defaults) , and you extract the ICO from `shell32.dll` w/ Resource Hacker it can make a convincing lure.
IMO if you need to blacklist a whole compiler, you have failed at making an AV. I don't know what is broken in the whole ecosystem for it to come to this but this is terrible. Windows is broken is my guess. I reiterate, it is blacklisting a _compiler_
They could, yes.

However, the instant someone reports malware signed by that certificate it's getting revoked and the author blacklisted. Plus the process ties your legal identity to the certificate, so when the malware is found, lawsuits are going to fuck you over.

Malware authors prefer to [use legitimate certificates from companies that have been compromised](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/malware-now-using-nvidias-stolen-code-signing-certificates/).
The entire AV industry has always been an incompetent scam.
I hate to break this to you, but pyinstaller is not a compiler. It’s software that basically unzips a payload and then runs that payload. At that payload contains *everything* (the python executable and its libraries) to wreak havoc on a computer.  Can AV publishers do a better job in distinguishing innocent Python scripts from malicious ones? Maybe. Maybe not.
But in the end, a script converted to a stand alone package including the executable needed to run that script will very likely be flagged since those bytes contain a fingerprint(the pyinstaller executable) that often enough (unlike straight compiled C code not containing such a highly recognizable byte sequence) is associated with malware to be flagged as such.
Note, I have distributed a python software package built with pyinstaller. Anti-virus programs did pick it up as a virus in the beginning, but as I increased its distribution, started code-signing, it stopped.

The few that kept picking it up as a virus stopped doing so once I contacted the antivirus distributor.

These systems are annoying, yes, but not terrible.
Ooooh thank you for the information! (To ease the concerns of others, no, I'm not planning to write malware)
