Multiple Backdoored Python Libraries Caught Stealing AWS Secrets and Keys
Researchers have identified multiple malicious Python packages designed to steal AWS credentials and environment variables.  

What is more worrying is that they upload sensitive, stolen data to a publicly accessible server.

[https://thehackernews.com/2022/06/multiple-backdoored-python-libraries.html](https://thehackernews.com/2022/06/multiple-backdoored-python-libraries.html)
The linked article specifically mentions that the list of packages *includes*:

- loglib-modules
- pyg-modules
- pygrata
- pygrata-utils
- hkg-sol-utils

and that

> [t]he packages and as well as the endpoint have now been taken down.
>An Istanbul-based security researcher Yunus Aydın, subsequently, claimed responsibility for the unauthorized modifications, stating he merely wanted to "show how this simple attack affects +10M users and companies."  
>  
>In a similar vein, a German penetration testing company named Code White owned up last month to uploading malicious packages to the NPM registry in a bid to realistically mimic dependency confusion attacks targeting its customers in the country, most of which are prominent media, logistics, and industrial firms.

I knew it was going to be idiots like this before I even opened the article. Self-righteous, lazy-brained dipshits with main character syndrome. The harm of actually exposing real people's real credentials doesn't even register with them.
Is there a program/website that could check these packages for malicious code?
Jail them.
What would be good - a python library to scan other python libraries for this type of shit

The risk to solve here can be scoped down to: **python libraries that send data over a network.** Then users can review if that should be necessary

There are a limited set of python commands that can do this so there should be a way to scan the actual text of the .py files for keywords and flag.
Any idea how long it took the community to detect this? 

If it's quick, this is good for OSS actually. Otherwise, I will have to fight another day against Microsoft proprietary shizzle
I've started handwriting stuff at work, it's no longer worth the hassle unless it's a well known and offers significant functionality
Even worse, the end point they were uploaded to was written in PHP (ﾉಠдಠ)ﾉ︵ ┻━┻  


And they couldn't even use a uuid for the uploaded credentials.
One of the reasons I started doing everything in a venv and using a few mainstream packages only. It’s just not worth reading the source code for every package used in a package.
Oh no, packages does shady shite the 123rd...more at 11.
Isn’t this the purpose of Anaconda?
[deleted]
There are likely tons more. I found a few less than a year ago, reported them, and got them pulled. I spotted them by chance, because I was interested in the source and noticed apparently-unused imports - sure enough, those packages were doing bad stuff on import. Checked on PyPI and there were several packages relying on the bad one - mostly small things like the one I was originally interested in.

Always be vigilant, whenever you're pulling niche packages.
Right? If they were careful to do something like hash the credentials before uploading, and making sure the connection was secure... that'd be a different story. That's a sane POC. It proves it works, without exposing the private data.
Overwritten because fuck u/spez
"see I wanted you to see the worst case scenario of the vulnerability to raise awareness, so I decided to execute exactly this worst case scenario."


Now imagine scientists doing that with climate change. Or a world leader doing that with nukes.

Some people should not be coding. You can believe you're a white hat, but this is extremely dodgy and I really hope he gets some criminal charge from this.
Definitely.  Like, what's the fucking point dude?  We already know this is a vector of attack, it's literally been caught in the wild.  Why fuck with 10M+ millions users and companies to prove something we already fucking know?
"I only stabbed the guy to show how vulnerable he was to being stabbed, I'm the good guy here!"
well anyone could have done it... luckily it was people/organizations that actually told people about it
Thanks for the concept of "main character syndrome". Sooo useful.
> I knew it was going to be idiots like this before I even opened the article.

I also knew this.  However, I would not characterize them in the same way as you.  Personally, I think they are providing a service to an industry that continually discounts this sort of weakness.  Of course, they should have been more careful to guard the exfiltrated data.
>  Self-righteous, lazy-brained dipshits with main character syndrome. The harm of actually exposing real people's real credentials doesn't even register with them.

Be Snowden, not Manning
I just started to check the Python modules using safety, you can install that with pip/conda. It checks your requirements.txt file and creates a report with suggestions to upgrade certain packages that have known vulnerabilities.

Edit: it doesn’t scan the code from the packages I believe, so someone must have found the vulnerability and report it and then your package is flagged by the tool.
A lot depends on what exactly you want to check *for*, but in general:

* [Bandit](https://bandit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is a security-oriented static analyzer for Python code, which you can run as part of your linting suite to detect a variety of potential problems.
* As of Python 3.8, Python implements [PEP 578](https://peps.python.org/pep-0578/), which lets you set up runtime hooks for security-sensitive events that can do lots of useful things, ranging from just logging them up to outright forbidding them and terminating any Python process which attempts to carry out a disallowed operation.
Oh sweet summer child.
That wont be much useful. One can just hide the bad function in some cythonized python file
Key is to absolutely minimize dependencies. Do you only need two lines of functionality from a lib? Then dont import a lib that is 1MB of code which in turn imports 10 other libs..
That seems like a great way to throw the baby out with the bathwater.
So obviously `lpad` is obviously worth importing, but it seems like a lot of work to determine the minimal set of functions you need to import.

/s
Hunted.
So venv blocks access to everything system related? Cant access any of those aws system variables from venv?
Can you elaborate for me as I genuinely don't know anything about it.  Do they only maintain their own packages so it's safer?
Sadly not every package is in anaconda. Lots of stuff come from PyPi
I know we all love to hate amazon, but it's a bit a of a stretch to blame them. It's Clearly a deficiency in the python ecosystem. We all knew this was gonna happen one day.
Sure, you're using another infra provider. Now think if you're vulnerable to a library that exfiltrates all of your environment variables, or any key-like strings in your process's memory.
AWS has nothing do with this
I, for one, am very thankful that there are no laws that create criminal charges for "pushing bad code to prod."
> Now imagine scientists doing that with climate change

Right, that’s literally the point. People do nothing, until doing nothing is made more uncomfortable than doing something about it.

Exactly like climate change.
Or some bunch of dip sheets with a vaccine not knowing the long term issues that might be caused. However, we will force everyone in a country to do it. Otherwise they are not allowed to work. So therefore we get full vaccination coverage and then we wait and see what happens.
This.
They made the api keys publicly available. It was as if "white hats" aggregated the data for the black hats for free.
> well anyone could have done it... luckily it was people/organizations that actually told people about it

That's all well and good, but you need to disclose this privately before dumping private information online for a proof of concept.
They didn't tell anyone about it, a different security researcher found it.
[deleted]
Never gonna run around
They needn't have exfiltrated the data at all, to determine if it worked or not. They could have included heuristics that checked the data looked correct and only reported that result back.
I mentioned audit hooks (PEP 578, implemented Python 3.8) in another comment, but if you specifically were concerned about network exfiltration of data, you could set an audit hook on `urllib.Request`, or even down into the socket layer, and have it blow up on any attempt to make a connection or request to something you haven’t pre-authorized.

In general the audit-hook functionality is probably the most-useful-but-least-used security tool in Python.
Have you seen the cluster that is called botocore...?  I believe the configuration alone for AWS that's built into that package is North of 30 MB.  I believe the entire library is generated python from a declarative DSL approach using Kotlin.

For any sizeable application at this point, you're pulling in at least a couple dozen packages that all have their own set of dependencies so you don't actually have to build, test and maintain that code.  And if they don't actually pull in dependencies, then they're massive monoliths.
It's easy enough to do this but much, much harder to minimize the dependencies of your dependencies (and so on).
[deleted]
This is why my company stick to bottle and peewee, theya are a single file module.
Exactly my point. Only use packages available on Anaconda.
That's also why we practice defense in depth and don't allow our environments to blindly connect to the internet.
I would rather blame those that uncritically import a package without doing due diligence.
There are laws to punish intentionally damaging people by pushing code specifically designed to be bad to prod.
[deleted]
There's bad code and then there's bad code right... But yeh, lucky for most of us these laws don't exist!
--force my brother
What’s climate change?
Nope. Don't even try.

Vaccines are safe.
Yeah that’s fucked.
Except they stored private info on a public server, so a black hat could have just used that data to ruin people's lives anyway.
I don't understand why anyone needs to run an exploit against someone else's server, without permission.

Oh I just broke into your house to prove it was insecure

That's not a valid excuse. Break into your own house and publicize it, that's all that's necessary
Gotta agree with my man here. And lets be honest, contrary to popular belief, the good guys are more often than not better at this than the bad. Many of the most serious attacks have been made widely available to the lame brained ‘bad guys’ all due to white hat hackers having a chip on their shoulder. (Some)
Thanks, I completely missed that. Any experience how easy that is to circumvent?
It’d be great if npm or some other manager could flag libraries that have no other dependencies so one could make choices about what to include. There’s no issue with importing a little 1000 line utility file if that’s literally all it is.
Yup, who knew software development was hard, heck, some even call it Engineering :)
in the backend things are actually pretty reasonable, thats a different story on the frontend.

I cannot get over the fact that people select wordpress for their website, which usually is not even a blog, but something wordpress was never designed for like a webshop, or a one pager intro page. Wordpress itself, without any extra themes (that shopping code) or plugins has north of 1600 direct and indirect dependencies. Add in some shopping, more plugins, and you still have a staticly rendered webpage running endless amounts of code. Add in some snazzy react and other frontend "shinies" and that number of dependencies gets doubled without too many work.  
Just imagine the upkeep that would require if you where to actually be concerned with safety.

Fun fact, google has a mono-repo in which they clone their dependencies after running them trough their in house security department. If you want an extra dependency, you need to go trough them, And make a good case for why you think its worth scanning and maintaining.
That's an extremely narrow set of projects you can do and extremely unrealiatic for . If you're doing your average data science stuff maybe. Anything beyond that and you're basically screwed. Think not too long ago Tensorflow was the most used DL library out there, and not in anaconda.

Sure if there is an anaconda package, use it over doing pip install 100% of the time. But I think it's unrealistic to "just use conda" and call it a day.
If only conda weren't the crappiest software ever written.
You inspect the source code of every package you install?
I would say admitting it is pretty good proof.
Climate change is something often people ignore but could kill all of us humans and many other species in the near future.

For example, South Madagascar is already experiencing a severe drought that is killing plants, animals and people slowly. All because of pollution.

I’m not continuing this comment further because I think it’s not appropriate for the sub.
It’s when 1.5 trillion tons of carbon and methane are released into the atmosphere as the Siberian permafrost melts.
Nope. Don't even try.

Vaccines aren't safe or effective.
Because the attack as I understand it is to create a repo that is a look alike of a real one,but with malicious code.

So the attack really is : people get confused when searching for library x or they do typo in their imports. To show that global package namespace is an attack vector they can't just import the wrong one, they need to show real ppl getting things wrong.

With that being said how they manage the extracted information is just bad.
I think it can make sense if you stumble upon a potential exploit or suspect some large corporation or government agency is vulnerable. In those cases, I think it would be in the public interest for someone try run an exploit as a proof of entry. I would hope many organizations that large would have some infrastructure set up to disclose potential exploits though. Obviously what these people did is ridiculous; actually stealing and publishing leaked data is no where near white hat at all.
[The built-in audit hooks](https://docs.python.org/3/library/audit_events.html#audit-events) are *literally* built in to Python. The whole point of them is that there’s no way for random user code to turn them off or remove the listener functions hooked on to them. An attacker would have to swap out your entire Python interpreter/stdlib from underneath you to replace with a version that doesn’t emit the audit events.
There are still issues - what happens when that utility file gets replaced with something malicious? or removed?

You could pin a hash to prevent it from being replaced.. but then you might as well just vendor the file and protect against it's removal as well
I believe most large IT conscious companies do this.
Can you elaborate? I have used conda for years, have been nothing but pleased
Due diligence doesn't always mean a total audit. But as I have to evaluate the license of them before I can get approval, you're not far off.
Now hold on a minute. Don't get too hasty. ^^^/s
The biggest dip sheet of them all folks.
Oh I see.
Yeah I went through the PEP you posted. However that doesn‘t mean there aren‘t pitfalls around. Thsnks anyway!
you always pin the version that you wanted, and maintain that pinned version if there's a need to upgrade because of features and or security issues in older versions. Which means you will have to check the code you import from there again.
Cant remember exactly what project but i had some of the most craziest bugs when using some libraries from anaconda, had no choice but to get rid of it. Why suffer when i can just pip
I guess I’m not sure what you’re looking for. “We built this auditing functionality into Python but then made it easy to circumvent” would be kind of pointless. Maybe there’s a vulnerability somewhere that does allow you to get around it, but if you find one the responsible thing to do is report it to the Python core team.
pinning the version doesn't prevent that version from becoming unavailable. And without hash pinning there is still potential for that versioned file to be replaced (though I am talking about the general concept here, not npm specifically)
Yeah, I get it, as a seasoned developer at this point, i might as well just use pip. But i make a lot of software for scientists, who dont especially like programming. In my experience, anaconda has been by far the easiest path of getting python beginners going, and getting all the relevant packages
true.

hash pinning is best, but for pypi and repositories like npm I guess we can work with just a version-pinned requirements file.
