py4jshell
Simulating Log4j Remote Code Execution (RCE) CVE-2021-44228 vulnerability in a flask web server using python's logging library with custom formatter that simulates lookup substitution on URLs. This repository is a POC of how Log4j remote code execution vulnerability works.
[Link to repository ](https://github.com/Narasimha1997/py4jshell)
Thank you for taking the time for that. I teach programming classes in Python and my students were very interested in the log4j exploit but just didn't have the experience to fully understand what happened. This links right into the project they just finished based on flask. Awesome!
[deleted]
[deleted]
Thanks, i hate it! Ü
awesome! well done for taking the time to create this
very good project. a lot of educational value
Is this just a simulation or is this actually doing the exploit?
Log4PyShell ??
Cool! Did you think about making a youtube video on this one?
Oof... too soon :(
Thanks so much.
I’m jealous none of my CS professors were like this.    Keep up the great work!
I was just thinking "what good is this project?" until I saw your comment… And you, fella, are a great teacher!
u sound like a good teacher, i never had one of those.
Too long, it'll never catch on.  I suggest `Log4p` so people will be confused which `p` you mean
Haha yes! We can do that
So you're saying that we'd need to have a deserialization mechanism that requests another server which `import`s the classes and can execute malicious code? Is this correct?
Hi, nope it's not directly executing the code coming from http request. 
1. In Log4j, a JNDI lookup URL is passed in one of the headers so if substitution is turned on in the configuration, it will perform a lookup on the provided URL evaluates that class and substitutes the result back in the place wherever there was a URL before in the log message. In Java they call it serialisation and de-serialisation of classes, which is technically same as calling eval over a string. (At a higher level)

2. In this repository, instead of using LDAP + JNDI I'm using HTTP server for hosting exploits, as it is simple and can be easily hosted. But the methodology remains the same, only change is the communication protocol, which anyways doesn't matter. 

3. Log4j Vulnerability is straight forward, in the article you posted, I almost read the same thing which I had read on other blogs, i.e it allows users to execute arbitrary code hosted on remote servers. 

4. It could have been detected long back, but yeah, it's just that we trust the library so much and no one actually bothered to understand what happens internally.
Who doesn't haha
Thanks.
Thanks
It's not the vulnerability of python logging library. I wrote a custom formatter for the python's logger which performs remote lookups just like how Log4j does. 

Here you will know the code is vulnerable as you are writing the formatter. But in Log4j this feature was already there.
Nope! I don't have a channel.
Just had fun building this haha
[deleted]
Yes. Exactly. Basically this is the pipeline: 
1. User sends a URL that points to the malicious exploit hosted somwwhe ok a remote LDAP server. 
2. There is a feature in Log4j which allows developers to substitute results from executing custom functions, this can be useful for logging custom messages, to make this easy, they added a feature where developers can specify the location of their remote custom function via a pattern (just like how we have patterns in Jinja). 
3. If that pattern is seen, the Log4j Library will lookup for that class, downloads it, de-serialises it and evaluates it.
4. The result is substituted back.
Ahh okay thanks
Good way to start
Fair enough
Yes! But I've used HTTP instead of LDAP.
Do you have a channel?
Haha yeah
