Twelve malicious Python libraries found and removed from PyPI

[deleted]
In case people are interested, this actually detected by [looking for malicious code using static analysis](https://medium.com/@bertusk/detecting-cyber-attacks-in-the-python-package-index-pypi-61ab2b585c67)

This strikes me as a generally hard problem. 
Namespaces

Signatures

It’s like we’ve learned nothing over the past 60 years. 
Hmm depressingly the same thing happened precisely a year ago: 

https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/ten-malicious-libraries-found-on-pypi-python-package-index/

maybe `pip install` should use the option `--user` by default and only install as root when asked explicitly.
Something like this would have helped: https://github.com/mattsb42/pypi-parker
Sounds like bottom line is  Caveat emptor: Buyer beware.  If you're looking for a specific python package, make damned sure you know who made it, when and double check its spelling.

&#x200B;

Glad to see PyPI take this action.
What about the pkgutil and timeit packages? Since those are included in the standard library.
Good thing I only run my Python on my supermicro servers with Intel chips and Xorg installed.
This is why Open Source software is so important, it limits the options of nefarious coders by subjecting them to the scrutiny of others.
I don't understand how this happens with such a high profile library. After reading the article I still don't understand how some random person could just add their own files to PyPi's installation.
While I'm glad these are removed, I don't like the idea of calling an impersonating package a malicious one-- usually when people think malicious package they think real packages with malicous code inside it, like what happened with the NPM webpack issue and what a guy warned about regarding micropackages.

E: what are the non typo packages meant for? Never heard of them.
CLICKBAIT
I used to toy with the idea of registering a package called "requirements.txt", hoping to catch folks who do `pip install requirements.txt` without the -r flag

Pretty sure it wouldn't work, but still
They should deny packages that are too similarly named to existing ones. We *do* have algorithms to measure similarity and they can be implemented in Python. More widely used packages should have extra clout and clear a wider namespace around them.
Totally reasonable. The thing with pypi names and package names in general is that they are negotiable anyway.

If someone were dumb enough to name his project djago, but could give good reasons why the name should go to him, there is no problem with doing that, really. At worst, if the actual module behind the name changed, it would produce errors that would be very easy to track down and very easy to fix.

A while back some library in npm had to give up it's name and as vendetta the author removed it from npm. Broke a bunch of websites but two days later everything was fixed. So even that wasn't really an issue in the grand scheme of things.
I use the same technique to implement restricted python sandbox. The requirements were nearly the same - VMs were not going to help and we wanted to be able to execute some user-submitted code if it was sane, and to throw an exception if it was not. We use AST parsing, substitution and recompilation to wrap callables and other object classes to special versions that also do further checking/management and to prevent things like deep inspection.
It's like everything would be possible, had the Pypa access to a modest funding for one or two full-time employees. However it more or less run on a shoestring, so all of the shouldve-couldve-wouldves are really just a pipe dream with no-one to actually execute them :(
The traditional package management systems in Linux distros don't have this problem. When was the last time you heard about something like this in debian? It's just the language package managers and the new snap/flatpack/docker stuff that are stuck in the wild west.
That's one thing another is to deprecate setup.py and just use declarative setup.cfg. Hopefully that's the plan.
Relevant issue : https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/1668
Because they are standard no one registered these names on PyPI and some people still try to install them.
As the article mentions, people register packages with names similar to popular packages in the hope people will mistype the names. pip install jango, etc.
They didn't change the code in the original packages (for example "django") , but instead they created new packages with similar names (for example "diango", "djanga", etc.), copied the code of django there and added the malicious code. So if you misspelled "django" when doing "pip install", you could end up with the malicious package (that worked almost like django but would also steal your passwords and stuff). 
People created packages with similar names to existing popular projects. Anyone can upload a new package as long as you get the name first.

For examine one of the malicious packages was called colourama with the real one called colorama 
I wish pip search could be better as currently I am not aware of how to make search efficient. For example if you do pip search django, it comes back lots of things which could be difficult to filter. 
The real question is, why did pypi accept those packages in the first place? A secure policy must begin with a "deny all" rule and from there, figure out how to strike a balance between security and practicality. 
[deleted]
I've done this a few times myself, it would have had me for sure.
yesterday i stumbled across the first package I have seen with a dot in the name. I was surprised `pip install` [`stomp.py`](https://stomp.py) worked, so you have a chance.
It was a thing until somewhat recently. It was a greyhat package that would publish your IP and username to a website. The description was very clear about what it would do, though.
Only in the case where the similar package is popular enough.  Pypi is full of dead packages
Maybe not deny, but at least fire off an email to the similarly named package and have a process to delay the registration.
So, to take an example, I maintain [this package](https://pypi.org/project/pwned-passwords-django/). Like the name implies, it's an integration of the Pwned Passwords password-checking service, for Django.

[Here's another, legit, app doing a similar thing](https://pypi.org/project/django-pwned-passwords/).

[And another](https://pypi.org/project/django-pwned-validator/).

[And another](https://pypi.org/project/django-pwnedpasswords-validator/).

And I'm sure there are more. Which maintainer gets to "own" any package name that would obviously be a Pwned Passwords integration for Django? How would you like to decide that now, and which ones would you kick off PyPI?

Mine wasn't the first, should it be denied on those grounds? But it has the most GitHub stars, should the others be denied on those grounds? We could go round and round forever about how to do this. Or we could decide that's probably a worse approach than dealing with malicious typosquatting as it comes up.
> A while back some library in npm had to give up it's name and as vendetta the author removed it from npm. 

Meh. Seems entirely reasonable to me. 




I thought they had at least a single full time employee working on the Python infrastructure? Also the exact same thing happened a year ago. Even with a shoestring budget why would this issue not have been prioritized?
Actually the plan is to deprecate setup.py and use pyproject.toml (see PEP 517 and 518)
Thank you for replying!
I pip installed timeit in a virtualenv by accident i'm pretty sure, inside a vm which i mainly use for messing around/nothing serious, although i did have some other Python projects with pvt API keys in that vm. Should i assume they're compromised?
Ahhh alright. Thanks for the clarification
That means when they " import djanga" in their code they'd have to misspell it exactly the same? 
Would you volunteer to vet the package names? The Python package index isn't exactly a well-funded undertaking, so unless someone steps up to the bat, nothing will change.
Anyone can register and upload any package they want as long as the name is unclaimed - I definitely did.

Is this good or bad? Well, if you believe Python's strength lies in its vibrant ecosystem, then throwing up hindrances to uploading packages will be counterproductive.
There aren't that many devs who work on python packaging 
The most secure and trustworthy approach would be to follow what linux distributions do and basically audit every package before it is accepted to pypi.

The problems described in the article are just a tip of the iceberg (or maybe a tip of the tip of the iceberg), typosquatting is pretty lame, think about malicious (or even not updated!) dependencies of dependecies of dependencies. This is little bit worse in npm and go where you go can *directly* refer to other packages straight to github (and often the reference is to **not-immutable** tag or branch as opposed to immutable commit hash).

EDIT: And regarding npm and go(?) even if you refer to all your dependecies by commit hash and the dependencies refer to all dependencies by commit hash, their dependencies can use tags/branches so it's trivial for the attacker to force push to the branch and the right time (eg. you announce new release of your electron-based altcoin wallet coming next week in a blog) and then force push again.
I think this is the right answer. This sort of thing should be handled with proper alerting, nothing too harsh. It should be caught but it doesn't necessarily need to be automatically denied.

But I think there should be somewhat of a Python authority like web Certificate Authorities, and some really common packages with high usage should be signed by them. Maybe if you reach a certain number of downloads or popularity, you submit a signing request to the Python CA, and they sign it with each new release. This could be a subset of PyPI packages, a "trusted" repo. Maybe a user would do `pip install --trusted django` and it would break unless it was in the "trusted" branch, so for the most part people out there who want more confidence would know that anything they install with that flag has been verified as the correct package.
Any existing packages can be grandfathered. We don't have to be dumb about this.

None of the names you suggest are typo-squatting, although it's still not a desirable situation to have four package names so similar. The place to start would be edit distance anyway, since that catches typos. We want to reject nimpy, scypy and panda5. 

We have already have a manual process to take over defunct packages that requires PyPI maintainer intervention. Requesting a name very similar to an existing package could have a similar approval process.
He actually removed all of his packages (over 250 of them) from npm because of being forced to rename one of them (due to a trademark complaint). 
Note if you licensed it foss you can't revoke peoples right to continue distribution so the proper thing is not to include anything people can remove in the store to avoid people breaking everyone's builds.

Example clojars does not allow removal. 
The whole affair was stupid.

The guy behind npm shouldn't have given away the name because of pressure by some third party, there should have been a discussion.

Pulling the repos was petty and ineffective, because it was open source, lots of people had copies and all that happened was a short time of outage and confusion.

And the group who claimed the name was stupid and petty for insisting they needed that package name.
The PyPa appears to not have unified voice, to me it looks like members trying to drag packaging in different directions, but in really setuptools/pip is the current standard and ultimately those packages decide. It doesn't look like there is anything that pyproject.toml provides that couldn't couldn't be done through setuptools. The argument about not reusing setup.cfg is not convincing it sounds like author just liked toml format and wanted to use it at any cost.

setup.cfg is really sufficient for distributing applications for example:

    [metadata]
    name=my-awesome-app
    description=blah
    long_description=file:README.md
    author=Me
    author_email=me@example.com

    [options]
    setup_requires=
        setuptools_scm
    install_requires=
        pytz
        typing; python_version < "3.5"
        PyJWT[crypto]
    tests_require=
    packages=find:

    [options.entry_points]
    console_scripts=
        myapp=myawesomeapp.cli:main

setup.py:

    #! /usr/bin/env python

    from setuptools import setup

    setup(use_scm_version=True) 


You can then generate a wheel package which will install all dependencies. And creates myapp in bin directory that starts your app. setuptools_scm generates version from git tags.

This is good starting point, there are more options available: 
https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#configuring-setup-using-setup-cfg-files

For deployment in production you want package pinning so for example what you deploy in production is exactly what you tested. You can do that easily with pip-tools package which integrates easily with CMS. You of course don't need it if you use docker.
I'm helping training a bunch of beginning programmers at work and they keep asking me why pip won't install this or that standard library package. 
Yes, you should assume that. From the table in article it looks like it was sending some kind of information to them whatever that is, so that information should also be considered compromised.
Nope, the setup.py can install anywhere including packages with the right name.
The package name is separate from module name and can be completely different. Also a one package can install multiple modules.
While I agree with you, couldn't you also write a tool to check for similar package names? So you upload your package and it would check the name using the Levenshtein algorithm or something to the top 2500 packages? If something is very similar then it raise a flag.
Huh. It's almost as if companies around the world collectively pull in many billions of dollars in profit using Python, Pip, and the PyPA. Maybe they could, I don't know, help a bit?
> Would you volunteer to vet the package names?

I bet the people who run *projects* with a similar name would though....

On project submit:

* Calculate levinstein edit distance
* Inform people with edit distance within the range

There is a question about what the distance should be.

















If pypi started will security first it, sadly, would have not grown. Wed all be using whatever prioritised convienence.

But now that is market dominate they can ease the slider from convienence towards security.
Security is not a hindrance, it's a necessity. An ecosystem that ends up distributing malware to its consumers is not "vibrant", it's having serious trouble.

In my eyes, the counterproductive thing is to make it easy to inject malware into the ecosystem.
I'm just trying to point out that there is a problem when a famous package repository accepts malware and cannot be proactive enough to prevent it. Having few devs working on packaging only compounds the problem, of course.

It's a hard problem, and there are probably several ways to tackle it. I can think of a couple, but I'm sure the people more familiar with PyPI can think of other ways to tackle it. I would suggest having contributors who already own and maintain packages go on a pool of reviewers that should check proposed packages. A proposed package would only enter the official repository if it got enough upvotes from these reviewers.

And also, enforce a big-enough manhattan distance between the names of packages to prevent typo squatting.
Donald Stufft  wrote some illuminating thoughts on signing packages: https://caremad.io/posts/2013/07/packaging-signing-not-holy-grail/
I was sure it was a good idea before; I'm not so sure now.
So now it's a land rush. Say a new online service opens up, the rush is on to claim package names relevant to it and, if possible, do bad things in those packages. Everybody else will be auto-banned from making a real package until bureaucracy runs its course. Which means the first actually successful package may well have a completely unrelated name just to get around this "helpful" policy.
Perhaps a little nuclear! Also kind of indiscriminate. 

I don't know what I think about this:

* Sometimes measured retaliation is justified
* Never respond and spend your life being a victim
* If you aren't careful the whole world will make you responsible for their well being. 

Perhaps he should have reissued them with a  (non-OSS compatible) license that specifically excluded this company, anyone who had ever done business with them, and everyone who had ever worked for them....
I'm not disagreeing mate, just parroting the actual core devs instead of PyPA.

That said PyPA have no idea what they want. They can't decide between setup.cfg and pipenv (favoring the latter), but also refuse to implement pipfiles in pip.
"I tried running `pip install Windows10` so I can play games and it didn't work. Is that a Python bug?"

/s

As in, `djanga` could install something in `requests` that monitors all my traffic?
That would help a bit. But it still requires someone to review the flagged packages reasonably fast. It's pretty easy to come up with a plausible¹ name that have a very low distance to e.g. django. 

1. Both dingo and quango have a distance of 2, which is comparable to the typosquatted names.
There are so many soundalike packages that might be difficult.  Heck there are event plenty of duplicate library names from different developers that are not malicious in intent.
> I bet the people who run projects with a similar name would though....

I'm not so sure about that. There are umpteen abandoned¹ packages on pypi. I would be surprised if there is anyone to OK a name with a small Levenshtein distance to them.

1. Like packages listing all 2.x versions up to 2.6 
PyPI is already vulnerable to land rushes. But I think you just want to argue and naysay. I'm not interested.
It's also a lesson in watching out for transitive dependencies. When a single library can break an entire ecosystem, you're walking on thin ice.

Was it left-pad or something that broke the whole js world a year or so ago?
It feels to me that they do. I think PyPA allowed author of PipEnv to join, but doesn't  necessarily like his ideas. Recently for example pip was refactored and it temporarily broke pipenv, implying there was no heads up about the change. 
I think what they're trying to say is you could install `djanga` and that package will still be imported as `django` but with malicious code
The setup.py executes arbitrary Python code at install time. It could modify your .bashrc code and install a malicious binary anywhere and run that upon every login.
yes, I believe it's even worse than that... they may be able to install files anywhere pip has permission to do so.  This is why we recommend people use venv/pip install --user so they don't need to use root to install packages.
As commented above you could try outsourcing this work to the package maintainers.

Alternatively, on pip pull you could check for similar names yourself and correlated this with download number.




That *was* the left-pad thing.

The guy who pulled all his modules off npm to protest a trademark complaint was [the author of left-pad](https://www.theregister.co.uk/2016/03/23/npm_left_pad_chaos/).
Donald Stufft and one other member of the PyPA pushed pipenv like pushing a cube into a circular hole. They also promote pipenv on their site.

The breaking was probably oversight, because they really just don't care. But the little that they do care, it's definitely pipenv.
A familiar library for some of you that does this almost annoyingly is beautifulsoup4
> Alternatively, on pip pull you could check for similar names yourself and correlated this with download number.

That's a good idea. You should stake your claim to that, and raise it as an issue on the [warehouse tracker](https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/issues).
Oh snap, I thought it was 2 separate events. I guess the other one I am thinking of where someone got a malicious upload on a legit library and npm had a bad time dealing with that.
Wait, what? Can you elaborate?
Yeah that was badly worded but - to install beautifulsoup you do

    pip install beauitfulsoup4

you import it as bs4

    import bs4

Which is a prime example of the package you are installing can use a different name for imports.
it seems like entrypoints is too easily exploitable?
