Software downloaded 30,000 times from PyPI ransacked developers’ machines

Is there any reason why software repositories should not implement some kind of automated filtering to flag for review packages with names similar to already existing packages? At least on paper that should not be that difficult to do.
[deleted]
Thanks for the read.
Imagine getting that software on machines inside a bank. 😀
One more reason for staying inside the walled garden of a curated collection.
No way to check vulnerability of a pip package?
As /u/m_lilby mentioned in another comment, namespaces would help mitigate some of these issues. So would having a process to review/vet new projects for obvious spam or malicious intent (e.g. https://m.slashdot.org/story/385768).

Having a simple packaging format and low barrier entry only invites headaches down the line.
It's not dumb at all.


There is no 100% guaranteed way to stop this completely. What u can do is to make sure you wrote name of package you want to install correctly.

For example u might try to install `django-rest-framework` when what u really wanted to install was `djangorestframework`
There are tools like Sonarqube that pick up various vulnerabilities but that works mostly in corporate environments. When you work on home projects it's best to use virtual environments and separate personal data by the project work.
Oof. If a bank allows any employee to just go straight to pypi these days and not through a risk assessment filter that adds a little friction by first  putting a requested pkg through tools like black duck (map source code to known security vulnerabilities) before approving and making them available on an internal company managed index, they’re basically asking to be infiltrated. 

And even that isn’t 100% guarantee of safety.
You can download it and read the code yourself.
Companies like Sonatype and Snyk usually offer free tools to scan packages for vulnerabilities, e.g. https://github.com/sonatype-nexus-community/jake.

Unfortunately, these only pick up publicly disclosed vulnerabilities (CVEs); detecting malicious packages in the wild is far more difficult.
Are you volunteering for reviewing every upload to pypi?

E: I see you don't, so how would your scheme be brought to life? There are no idle persons hanging around pypi, just waiting for something to do.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Except it's not 100%. Because even if your yourself select the correct package, you're then relying on the developer of that package to never make a mistake with his dependencies, and then the author of those dependencies to never screw up their dependencies, and on and on.

It's not just about you making a mistake, it's about you and a few hundred (or even thousand) people not making a mistake... multiplied by how ever many packages you have installed.

To be even remotely safe from this you have two options: only use packages from a well moderated and reviewed source (not pypi). Or write more code yourself so that you need fewer packages.

Or even better, a reasonable combination of both.
Fyi for Django Rest Framework, I believe `djangorestframework` actually is what you want
I do a lot of development in NodeJs using yarn, and to install a package globally the command is:

    yarn global add <package name>

There's a package on npm called "global" that has massive numbers of installs, but because people mistakenly type:

    yarn add global <package name> 

Which installs the package global and the package you wanted.

If that guy was a jerk he could do some real damage.
[deleted]
You'd be surprised how little oversight many companies have over dependencies and technology in general. They see IT as a cost centre and a tool to support the business, not an important facet _of_ the business. 

Why waste time and money maintaining costly software and infrastructure when you already paid someone to build your website 5 years ago? Just look at what happened with Equifax, or the wave of preventable ransomware attacks crippling businesses.
It sure would be a shame if banks mostly just outsourced their development work to the lowest bidder, and gave up a lot of the power they'd need to enforce these sorts of policies as a result.
I always do so
And when I typosquat your ehitehat namespace, then what?
No. Bandit is only looking at vulnerabilities in your own code. And running Bandit against packages you've downloaded likely wouldn't help much, because these packages generally obfuscate what they do.

There are scanners that check your dependencies for vulnerabilities, such as Py.up Safety, but these are geared more towards identifying use of old versions of popular packages with known issues, not cataloguing all the malicious packages that are out there. Most malicious packages get pulled from PyPI when they're discovered anyway, so there would be little point.

The only defence against this is to do some background research on packages before adding them. Who are its developers? Do they still maintain this package? Is this package widely used? Do they have a bug tracker, and is it actively used?

And check the spelling on any packages that you add!
Some packages from PyPI are better than others. I know that the Flask development team have a strict dependency policy (at time of writing, I don't think they have any dependencies that aren't maintained by the same maintainers as Flask) for precisely this reason. So if you add Flask to your project, you know that you're not going to get a bunch of transitive dependencies nobody's looked into.

But you do need to do your homework before adding a dependency. Most projects have no policy at all on dependencies, or have a much weaker policy than this.
You're right! I'll correct it just in case someone rely on it to install django rest framework
They don’t protect at all using a venv. 

If you truly want to be safe you need to fire up throw away virtual environments like a full vm or even docker adds a greater layer between your machine and the space your app is running in. 

But a venv alone doesn’t do anything for you security wise besides helping you not pollute the global python package space.
Lol, you get it. :)

I've seen a shocking number of production applications that were written by an offshore dev (or intern) 5 years ago, and haven't had any dependencies upgraded since.
Banks are very well audited and controlled and waste a lot of hours just trying to be compliant and fix audit measures. Many of them outsource to lowest bidder, transferring the risk to the outsourcing company how can always say they're doing the work but not actually doing it for all cases.
[deleted]
Namespaces help mitigate certain attacks by providing clarity. For example, [`twilio-node` and `twilio-npm`](https://www.zdnet.com/article/malicious-npm-package-opens-backdoors-on-programmers-computers/) versus `@twilio/node` and `@twi1io/node`?

Package registries should also have a process to vet new developers and packages for obvious spam, typo squatting, etc. It wouldn't stop a malicious actor for publishing a 'good' library and adding a vulnerability in a later version, but it would stop [the deluge of spam](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/spammers-flood-pypi-with-pirated-movie-links-and-bogus-packages/).

No single control can thwart a malicious actor, but the more you have, the greater your defense.
Again, who should do the auditing? The last I heard, Pypi was a one-man show, so there are not a whole pool of people hanging around, waiting for something to do.
