How to tell if a github repository is malicious?
Hello redditors,

I recently tried installed a Python module from github for the first time. [https://github.com/julianirwin/hloopy](https://github.com/julianirwin/hloopy) 

I am completely new to github and have NO IDEA how to assess a developer's credibility. I am also not that experienced with coding. My questions are thus:

1. How would you guys assess if a github package/module is safe? Especially if it isn't popular/doesen't have any ratings?
2.  If you do run malware modules/code, how do you find out if you're infected? Would your anti-virus be able to pick it up? Or is it invisible?

PS: For those interested, this package basically analyses the Magnetic data of ferromagnets through curves plotting etc I thought it'd be useful for a project I'm working on

Any help would be very much appreciated, kind regards :)
The only sure way to know is to look through the code directly, though that is a real pain!

When I'm trying to determine if a repo might be malicious, I typically look more at who has written it to try to judge if they might be doing something shady.

For instance, do they have any other popular repos? Do they work for a credible institution? 

In general, I tend to trust science repos more than those in some other fields because the authors typically have a specific goal and the potential targets for malicious code (other scientists) is pretty small.


Another option that could be interesting for you is to run the repo from something like a docker container which would put another layer between the code and your machine.
Malicious packages really want to target millions of users.  I think you're safe from malicious code plotting magnet data, but you may well find intentional security holes.

You can purposely introduce security holes in a program without trying to be malicious, but searching for exec, subprocess, and os.system is a good start.  Looking for weird looking code (full of double underscores is another).

Any python GUI complicated enough to include a scripting interface has a glaring security hole.  Might as well go one more step and support things like log(10) on your plot legend.  It's open source anyways.

I don't read code looking for malicious code, but rather to audit the quality of it if it is not a mainstream package.
Thank you very much. That is some very sound advice!
You can also google the author or the package name, see if any complaints come up. In general, though, I rarely see malware in niche scientific libraries, so I don't think it's necessary to be too paranoid here.
