Weatbag - come and help write a text adventure game
Weatbag stands for *Written by Everyone Altogether, The Big Adventure Game*. It's a text adventure game that you can help construct, adding tiles out towards infinity on a two dimensional grid.

There's no complicated framework to learn - each tile is just a class with a couple of methods. So even if you're pretty new to Python, you can easily make some tiles to practice coding. For more advanced coders, the sky's the limit, at least until we add a third dimension.

There's no overall aim to the game, but you're free to build your own quests. Or you can just add interesting tiles for players to explore.

[The code is on Github](https://github.com/takluyver/weatbag), and [instructions for adding tiles are on RTD](https://weatbag.readthedocs.org/en/latest/index.html).
This is a cute project.  I really love these kinds of things.  But I had a few questions and maybe a few suggestions (if you're open to 'em).

1. Shouldn't there be a Tile base class?  It seems peculiar that you would have a new class with the same name in the same module for every single tile.
2. Reusing commands seems a bit hard in this model.  Have you considered making an extensible Command class that allows the user to customize them without having to write new code?  Or maybe having a dictionary of available commands?
3. Does this have a concept of entrances/exits?  It looks like if you're somehow at a grid position, you've entered into it as if there was an entrance or exit.  Am I correct?  (This isn't bad or anything, I just wasn't too clear on that.)

--

Suggestions (if you're open to them):
1. Make commands easier to reuse.  A dictionary of lookups maybe?
2. Store the tiles in a different way that allows you to reduce the number of classes you have.  Description and Leave could both be attributes rather than methods too.  Since they're common to every single tile.  I would suggest a yaml file.  And just because prematurely optimizing is all the craze these days, you could even load these yamls into mongodb or redis when you first start up, so the entire file isn't sitting in memory.
3. You're going to need a dummy object class that can act as a container -- almost everything is a container on a fundamental level.  People contain loot, chests contain loot, books contain spells, etc.

I wrote up a gist to better explain what I mean -- https://gist.github.com/4473757

Keep in mind, I think this project is really cool.  I don't think you need to change ANYTHING.  It's your project, so you should do what you want and take pride in it.  I just thought I'd pass along a few notes.  :D  Muds (as they exist now) typically have millions of rooms.  You're gonna want an easy to maintain project structure that lends itself to that kind of thing.

tl;dr: I like your project, keep up the good work!  Check out my notes if you don't mind (hopefully) constructive criticism.
So... kind of like a MUSH?
This grew out of a meeting of my local Python user group. We spent a couple of hours building a [similar game](https://github.com/gistfoundation/adventuregame-pysheff), where the player had the rather artificial objective of retrieving golden keys.

The new version is based on some lessons learned from that, along with some thinking about how to leave room for future ideas - a third dimension, combining items, or saving game state, for example.
This is cool. I've never done anything like this, but I may contribute when I have time.
Wow, that is really cool!
You should totally make it an MMO, too. And maybe if the players reach a certain level, they can add their own content to the game!
Got an IRC room for this or something? 
Thanks for the suggestions. I've deliberately avoided abstractions like a Tile base class or a command framework, although I can see that they might make the tile definitions more concise, because:

1. I want it to be simple for contributors to understand, without having to read up on inheritance or YAML syntax, or even just feel insulated by a big framework.
2. Writing any kind of framework encodes my own assumptions about what the game should include. That's true even of the tiny framework I already have, but I want to leave it as open as possible for people to add things I hadn't thought of.

Obviously, as the game grows, the requirements might change. Maybe a Tile base class will be needed later, for example. But I don't want to add it now just in case it's needed later. There's a name for this strategy, but I can't remember what it is.

I'm not quite sure what you mean about entrances and exits. By default, you can move in any direction (NESW) where there's another tile. But tiles can conditionally block some directions, to allow mechanics where an area is off limits until you do something.
I should have guessed it would already be a thing. ;-) It's not currently multiuser, though; each player explores their own instance of the world. A multiuser version is another possible extension.

In the meantime, it could be interesting to have an internet-connected tile where users can leave messages for each other.
Can't push my tile. Says the git repo is read-only. Shouldn't you open this up if you want people to contribute? 
These exist. They're called muds, and they're the shit! Probably the first thing that got me going with the idea of programming.  There actually aren't that very many good python codebases out there for this. I can only name a couple.
Not yet! This is the first time it's been publicly announced, so there hasn't been anyone to talk about it. I guess we could easily make an IRC channel for it, though.
zupenut's global command class might be worth considering. Consider this: I'm carrying an unlit torch around from room to room. Do I need to redefine 'light torch' for every single room? 
Thanks. I'd prefer contribution to go through Github pull requests, though. Leaving it completely open would make it easy for someone to slip malicious code in.

If you've used Github to contribute to other projects, you already know how to make a pull request. If you're new to it, [they've got helpful information here](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo).
I'm aware they exist. This project just felt so much like one I had to joke about it.
Might be nice. And/or a wiki. People might want to claim tiles or blocks of tiles. Or collaborate on sections. 

Just toss around ideas in general. 
Yep, that is worth thinking about. I'm also thinking of a framework for combining objects. Maybe lighting a torch should be combining torch+matches.
Understood. Still new to this github thing, this is my first time attempting to contribute to anything. I've just sent you a pull request. Hopefully I did it right :) 
You did, thanks!
