PSF expresses concerns about a proposed EU law that may make it impossible to continue providing Python and PyPI to the European public

This is terrible.  There are elements of the corporate world that would be happy to accidentally on purpose harm the not for profit world.
Leaving aside the EU law for a minute:

> The risk of huge potential costs would make it impossible in practice for us to continue to provide Python and PyPI to the European public.

How would that even work? The code being freely available. Or they would have to update their license? I mean, sure they could prevent downloads but I don't see how they could prevent Europeans to access the code.
I couldn't see this would affect Python in particular. Did I miss something?
Classic EU legislation. 

Good intentions executed in the most clueless and hamfisted way possible. See also: cookie regulations.
FYI:  When attempting to open this link, Malwarebytes stats that this blog ([pyfound.blogspot.com](https://pyfound.blogspot.com)) ***may*** contain a trojan.   

This doesn't mean it does, but just wanted to shout an FYI.
I say let them pass this, realize that everything starts burning, and then when they hastily repeal the regulation and douse the flames they might have learned a thing or two about how software works.
What is the threat model about PSF? I don't get.
The GDPR completely poisoned the web. Instead of developing a technical solution, every. single. website. has this stupid popup which wastes millions of people's time every day. I sure hope european lawmakers don't further poison the the free internet that way.
Only if you pack the van wih 4 guns at a time
Great, more Python jobs for the rest of us while the EU shoots themselves in the foot.
I guess all python devs in EU can move to the UK
[deleted]
CRA explicitly excludes Open Source Projects ...
EU IS S*CK. The EU is the reason I left my native France.
easy solution just stop logging user access right?
If they don't legally reside in the EU and reasonably prevent EU citizens from accessing the site this would probably be enough legally.

A few large newspapers did this when GDPR was first launched: https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/chicago-tribune-los-angeles-times-block-european-users-due-gdpr-n877591
There is no way to prevent it. Updating the license to say it cannot be used in the EU, follow applicable local laws, etc. They could go extremely invasive and shut down any copies in certain areas with an update, i guess?
>Under the current language, the PSF could potentially be financially liable for any product that includes Python code, while never having received any monetary gain from any of these products. The risk of huge potential costs would make it impossible in practice for us to continue to provide Python and PyPI to the European public.
I'd love to see an independent review of the pending law by someone with the necessary expertise in European law. The PSF apparently has enough concerns to make this blog post and appeal to EU citizens to write to their MEPs, but I can't judge if their concerns are valid.

I did decide to share the PSF post here, as this seems like an important message from the PSF to the broader Python community.
This is a misconception. Cookie pop-ups didn’t have to have terrible UX. Tech companies who make web browsers and get revenue from ads resented having data feeds cut off and consumer privacy protected, so they misdesigned them to make it easy as possible to 1) accept all cookies and 2) blame the EU. 

Source: 

https://www.vice.com/en/article/m7epda/its-bad-design-on-purpose-why-website-cookie-banners-look-like-that
[deleted]
Why are so many clueless clowns in such important positions? And are they really that dumb or do they just dont care and just repeat what the lobbyists tell them?
> Classic ~~EU~~ legislation.

ftfy
Nope.


Who could possibly comply with it? Large corporations. Therefore large corporations become more powerful as individuals and small groups become criminals.


Individuals and small groups are very hard to control. Everything bureaucrats and politicians do is designed to increase their own power.



Never attribute to stupidity what can be attributed to malice.
I can't  agree more. GDPR is counter productive. If you want real consumer privacy protection, develop anonymization protocols such as tor, cryptocurrencies. The cookie popup accomplishes nothing.
How does a blog contain a trojan? You have to download something specifically for that? Just opening a web page (downloading the html) shouldn't do anything right?
Why do you put the blame on the EU protecting the customers and not the company harvesting our data? 

Not a single website _need_ the stupid popup if they only use the strictly necessary cookies.
This is a misconception. Cookie pop-ups didn’t have to have terrible UX. Tech companies who make web browsers and get revenue from ads resented having data feeds cut off and consumer privacy protected, so they misdesigned them to make it easy as possible to 1) accept all cookies and 2) blame the EU. 

Source: 

https://www.vice.com/en/article/m7epda/its-bad-design-on-purpose-why-website-cookie-banners-look-like-that
I guessed the country of origin.
It would be you, definite
Python is brought to me by my Ubuntu distribution... how do they enforce this? The doc can be accessed without python.org too.

So, even if they block me from accessing python.org, I can't see how that changes anything.
This may as well have been hand written by microsoft or oracle.
Yes, but many other efforts should be affected this way.

CRA is rather broad: [https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/cyber-resilience-act](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/cyber-resilience-act)

Best case there's need for some form of (and only) certification of compliance.
> Tech companies who make web browsers

Web browsers don't present those cookie dialogs.  They render the html provided by the site _you_ are visiting.  

At least blame the right person, and RTFA.
The way the legislation was written made this loophole possible.

I’m not saying at all that the EU is at fault for the cookie popups. 
What I am saying is that the law as written is flawed and anyone with just a passing familiarity with how the internet and big (ad) tech works could have predicted this outcome.
When vice is your source, you might as well ahead said 

Source:

I made it up, lol
>Relax, this a just proposal (i.e an early draft) for a directive that's supposed to gather feedback, like the one the PSF provided.

Yes, and individual opensource developers that reside in the EU may lobby their MEP to provide feedback.
They are managers and executives, just in the public sector. They are good at talking about things they don't understand.
Too much compromise and decision by committee. I don't believe they are dumb, I think there's a lot of bright people behind this. It's just they somehow manage to be collectively less than the sum of their parts.
Because very few people with actual knowledge and experience in a myriad of technical matters participate in the public administrations and care about legislation being passed.
The cookie popup is only needed for companies that want to harvest your data though. Why put the blame on the legislation when it's the companies that's the problem here?

Also the GDPR states that it should be equally easy to reject cookies as it is to accept them, so if that's not the case the company is in breach of the law. Feel free to let them know.
In theory, opening any link could compromise you, if it uses some exploit to load and execute code in memory, it can run without ever hitting the disk. As I recall, there were JavaScript and PDF vulnerabilities that did stuff like this.

Granted, in today’s world it likely requires a zero-day exploit, or running an old, unpatched web browser or OS. Zero days are valuable and not likely to be used on petty infections.
What the EU bureaucrats think are necessary. Trusting in the knowledge and good-will of a politician is how you get backwards places like the EU in the first place.
What if instead, the EU advocated using TOR and true privacy protocols ? wouldn't everyone be better off ?
European mirrors of the Ubuntu repos will probably not carry python anymore, unless Ubuntu takes responsibly for it
Ubuntu builds and distributes Python and Python packages separately from pypi, that is Ubuntu's responsibility they are complying with local laws for that distribution not the Python Foundation's responsibility.
oh, for the "particular particular", it's

>Open source languages and repositories shouldn’t be thanked for the public services they freely provide with an open-ended risk of ruinously costly legal action
Ironically, digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu causes a cookie pop-up 🤣
Why don’t web browsers present cookie dialogs or automatically manage cookies?

ETA: That was a rhetorical question. I am aware of technical workarounds. The reason browsers don’t automatically manage cookies to protect privacy is that the companies that make browsers want your personal data.
"Wait Google is an ad company? I thought they just did the search thingy?"

- elderly legislators across the globe
I think EU Law (as a compromise of many judical systems) is primarily written with "spirit of the law".
Professional bullshitters. Amazing anything manages to get done with these buffoons in the way.
If not dumb then they are malicious.
what if the legislation instead forced implementation of a browser setting to automatically reject cookies ? would that not be much much more powerful, and more user friendly ?
Vs those benevolent tech companies? *Please*
Let’s think about how industry reacted to GDPR, then think about how they’d react to much more a technically demanding proposal with real implementation costs and significantly higher latency.
You remove Python from many Linux distro, you have no Linux distro anymore as they use Python so heavily. Basically, nobody knows what could happen and I find the PSF a little light in screaming its lungs out this way.

The PSF is funded and has means to get lawyers to lobby the EU parliament as much as any other orgs.
You are talking about distribution when the PSF talks about authors. That's different.
That should affect e.g. PHP as well, and the many frameworks for the many programming languages in general etc. Maybe also Arduino, that's open source etc.
Still, as far as I can see it doesn't load Google Analytics nor Meta Pixel. That would be bad.
Firefox explicitly goes out of its way to protect your privacy in the context of cookies as best as it can while not breaking the web on you.
Check out the Consent-O-Matic extension. It does all the clicking for you to minimise non essential cookies.
ETA? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eta_(disambiguation)

- Rhetorical question?  You are very smart, what is that!
- Technical "workarounds"? What are they and how are they workarounds as opposed to simple _options_? Why is that a problem? 
- Lots of browsers automatically "manage" cookies. Many are quite strict.  
- What personal data are they getting from cookies? Your session key and language preferences?  You must have a specific example at least.

Perhaps you can create an example of the behavior you would want to see, and how a web browser would still work with websites if they enabled it.  For example, you could start off with something like:

> "In response to my request for index.html, web.com sent a response containing some html and numerous `set-cookie` headers.  I would like to have the browser {insert thing you think it should do}.  They dont do {thing} because then they don't have {other thing} so they lose money.
>
> This will have no effect on web.com ({reason they don't need the cookie}).
Because it's not their job, they have a budget, and a list of far more important tasks to do. Like reducing CPU usage of their browser.
Maybe? Or perhaps it'd just create a different set of problems. I happen to like GDPR, but not necessarily the implementation of it. I hate the bloody popups as much as the next guy, but that's not a problem with the law.
Browsers aren't static.

What happens if some future way of doing things doesn't fit the way the old law is written? "Sorry, Web 4.0 SuperBrowsers aren't supported for EU clients."
It could be something along the lines of : the EU funds development of a privacy-oriented browser, which properly asks for permissions when a cookie request is received.
Ah fair enough
Some ARM is open source IIRC
sorry but it is a problem with the law. The law should have been "make an http protocol change to allow browsers to decided whether or not they accept cookies". Then if you don't want cookies, you click once and for all, and you're done, instead of clicking 100000x on the OK or reject button every time you visit a new site.
And parts of Twitter is now too. Elon Musk will be "amused".
https://gdpr.eu/cookies/

* Receive users’ consent before you use any cookies except strictly necessary cookies.
* Provide accurate and specific information about the data each cookie tracks and its purpose in plain language before consent is received.
* Document and store consent received from users.
* Allow users to access your service even if they refuse to allow the use of certain cookies
* Make it as easy for users to withdraw their consent as it was for them to give their consent in the first place.

I don't have an issue with this at all, and there's nothing stopping you from updating the http-protocol.

I somehow doubt that the EU has the power to legislate how the http-protocol should look like, and I'm not sure I want them to either.
I don’t think that is relevant
It is quite relevant if people start to fork that code.
Being open source and open license are two different things. Is it open license?
This points to it being open source: https://www.theverge.com/2023/3/31/23664849/twitter-releases-algorithm-musk-open-source
Nobody denied that. I had a look and it’s AGPL 3.0 licensed. 

So you could use it I guess… but you have to the  carry over the license to your product and open its source and license.
