Anaconda | New from Anaconda: Python in the Browser

Really curious in what extent this gets adopted by the community
I was just wishing this existed like, a month ago. I seriously wasted a half a day trying to figure out a way before I was like, fuckit never mind. I hope it turns out to work. I would love to be able to make a chrome extension that can run python.
Does anyone know how this differs from Brython in performance and principle of operation?
this is epic
This is just sad. I mean imo this is them putting their leg wherever they can..
Spyder doesn't even support a virtual environment per project like every other IDE but they have time to do this! Priorities?
I am trying to use this tool to do some data analysis on files on my machine, however I can not seem to figure out how to get them to load using this tool. Can anyone help me please?
This is a toy. Need to download 100+MB first to get all the interesting libraries. The most minimal download first is 6MB.

Besides the huge download size there are significant performance issues: it is currently around 3x to 5x slower than native Python.

Source: https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/issues/1120
I don't think this will get adopted for web development, but for ML/DS it's very very promising. We can deploy small webapps without a backend, using the libraries we are already used to. Our current alternatives are things like streamlit, and this is a lot more useful.
Dumb question… when you say browser, does this mean it runs without local configuration (e.g., I could run it on my phone)?
Same here.  InfoSec people already blowing up on my LinkedIn feed saying this is a security nightmare.  Curious why is this more of a security concern when we already have client side javascript?
I could see it being adopted by a small subset. It's not going to be good for a public facing app, but for internal apps - maybe those that get loaded once and used all day, there might be a use case.

There are already a number a ways to utilize Python in front-end development (Brython, Pyodide, Skulpt, IDOM, Anvil, Transcrypt) and they all have their pros and cons depending on what you need to do with them. Personally I've settled on using Transcrypt, where the end result is really not much different than a native JS app.
I think transpiling to either javascript or WASM will win in the end, rather than executing an interpreter in the browser.
https://www.reddit.com/r/Python/comments/uhm1oe/comment/i7dvi4q/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3
Spyder is not developed by Anaconda, Spyder is an independent open source project.

Whereas Anaconda (the company) is a commercial company that ships the software distribution "Anaconda" and develops the open source tool conda. As far as I'm aware Anaconda (the company) does not develop any IDE.
wut.

first off, this project isn't from Spyder.

second, you can use different virtual environments in Spyder. 
`Preferences > Python Interpreter > Use the following interpreter` and select the virtual environment you want.
https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/wiki/Working-with-packages-and-environments-in-Spyder
Anaconda is dead to me since they updated their TOS and there are so many alternatives like miniforge
6MB is actually not a lot to the applications this is intended for.
To be fair streamlit is awesome
Yes, web assembly (which it uses) executes code on the client side.
So Python is primarily a back-end language with lots of tools for running things on a "real" server, i.e. command line execution, memory manipulation, etc.

I would guess that people are thinking because Python has those tools on the server side it might have those tools on the client side, e.g. ability to read what processes are running on your computer.

But if people are making that assumption they would be wrong. PyScript is running purely in a WASM virtual machine in the browser. It opens no new opportunities to figure out a users machine than existed before.

And if I was a malicious actor trying to exploit WASM for anything that could be exploited (e.g. finger printing properties of the client machine), then I would have more tools that are easier to implement using Rust.
>InfoSec people already blowing up on my LinkedIn feed saying this is a security nightmare.

Are they *real* InfoSec people? That would be a really weird take. This is not a new *browser* feature, it doesn't create any new surface for vulnerabilities. It runs within the same environment as any other existing client-side code.
The problem with transcrypt is that, outside of maintenance, it basically expects you to use js libraries not python ones
It's based on pyodide, which tranpiles to Web Assembly.
Ah right good to know. It was meant to be slightly tongue in cheek.
6MB gets you just the minimal, vanilla Python without any of the interesting libraries that make Python so powerful. The language itself is no major advantage over modern JS/TS, it’s all about the libraries. And that comes with a massive download.
It is! But with this we could have full client side streamlit!
>It runs within the same environment as any other existing client-side code.

That still means more entry vectors to exploit those vulnerabilities if a new language comes with more baggage than an existing one, doesn't it?
Yes, Transcrypt's design philosophy is definitely to embrace the JS libraries that already exist rather than reinvent them in Python. So while you don't have to code to them in JS, you do have to learn the API of whatever library you want to use. 

I've been using Python to directly code React applications in this regard. The good thing about that is that there is obviously a ton of general info/tutorials on React out there if I get stuck on utilizing React concepts. I don't care to code in JS myself, but I can read it just fine.  But for those that are not wanting to get into the weeds so much, there are projects like IDOM and Dash that provide a custom API with Python wrappers around React instead. The downside to those is that you are a bit more limited to just the features that they provide.
Pyodide is the runtime environment compiled to WASM. While intellectually interesting, I see it as a dead end compared to transpiling the python code to WASM instead.
Dumb question: can browser caching be leveraged, do you think? Get the core and top libraries once and again, but otherwise loads are fast. I could see there being specialized uses for this, especially if the majority of the data can come from a CDN.

Python has a way of attracting layfolk; I could see this being used as Python is in academia now: not super well, but good enough for those who only really know Python when it comes to solving problems in their specific domain.
No—this is compiled to WASM, just like anything else can be compiled to WASM, so its the same exact runtime and security issues as any other use of WASM.

On the browser and security surface side, there’s nothing new here.

I would question those infosec people a little if I saw them saying that without some really out of the box justification. There could be something, that’s why infosec is so fun, but on the face of it this is exactly the same as any other code compiled to WASM.
It doesn't because the new language runs *inside* the existing language (i.e., WebAssembly). It can't do anything that couldn't already be done in the environment that it runs in. By definition everything that you can do in PyScript you can also do in WebAssembly directly (if you couldn't, PyScript couldn't either). 

To put it another way. People who created PyScript don't have any special access that they could inadvertently expose. If their code can do something in the browser, yours can too. They are unable to expose any new surface of vulnerability in a browser because they are limited to only using the existing surface too.
I dont understand the distinction you are making. What advantage is there to "transpiling the python code to WASM instead" ?
It’s a good question, but unfortunately the answer is no.

The reason is that everything (core and libs) are baked together into one big web assembly binary. If one lib is added or updated or even removed, the entire big binary file must be completely downloaded again. 

Caching only occurs on a per web domain basis (nothing shared across sites for security), and the cache will actually be useless if a single bit of the binary changes.

A much better way, but this would be something browsers would need to implement, would be a caching mechanism something like how Docker works, where common layers are centrally stored and do not need to be re-downloaded. They can be composed from a cache and only delta needs to be downloaded fresh. Unfortunately this is not at all how the caching mechanism of the web works today, but maybe it can be a future proposal years down the line.
The difference is so obvious, that I cannot think of a way to explain the difference between a runtime environment and compiled code.

The advantage of transpiling to WASM is of couse a smaller footprint and faster code execution. Just like transcrypt vs. brython, really.
