Running Python from Google Sheets
Hey all - I know this sound a little crazy, but hear me out. At my last two companies, there have been dozens of little tasks that were annoying to do, but didn't warrant building an app to automate because it would have just taken way too long. They all looked something like this:

1. Operations / Sales has some data they need to load to another place (e.g. a database or application) or update in another system
2. The data was almost always in a Google Sheet
3. They'd slack me a link to the Sheet and ask "can you update [SOMETHING] with this data?"
4. I'd write Python/SQL to do the task
5. They'd want some sort of confirmation / analysis of the update in return

I finally built something to solve this, hope you like it. [Wax](https://www.wax.run/) lets you build internal tools on top of Google Sheets. You can automate annoying DevOps tasks and create a bidirectional link between Google Sheets and your database (Postgres, Snowflake, MySQL, Redshift, and SQL Server) in a couple clicks. You can also attach buttons in Sheets to Python and SQL scripts (e.g. hit an API using values from the current Sheet, process the results with Python, and return the results to Sheets). Actions can be scheduled to run hourly, daily or whatever cadence works for you.

Here's a demo of building reports:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-6pbj3eOmLY

And here's one setting up a sync:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-A6u6ZfJsQk

Example Sheet you can fork (uses yahoo finance data):

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_ZE3WWweJNQIll1dVvpDQwtnTSBRgNGo0xEcbKgGdII/edit#gid=0
Great idea but I see some security issues.
1. Bidirectional link to database = modification of db = hell. Imagine hacker got into your pc and have control over your sheet. He can modify database! 
2. Running python/js/anything else from sheet seems great but sheet of that sort can run code on machine so malicious sheet can run malicious code.
I feel like spreadsheets and code should be separate. It’s an. Interesting idea to be sure, but couldn’t you also use the GoogleDrive File Stream app on a server and treat it like a file system there? 

Separating the code and data allows you to check your tools into VCS and then your spreadsheets don’t get cluttered with other things. 

It also frees you up to use proper code and/or SQL editing tools which are a godsend. 

Automation is a valuable thing and every company can benefit from it. It can also be incredibly finicky if you are working with user-supplied and edited data. You need extremely to bust input verification and sanitizer ion.

I have nightmares of the last DevOps role I had and before we put rigorous measures to ensure clean data was put into our databases it was horrible. I do not thing just anyone should be able to submit data into a database Willy nilly. 

It’s an interesting idea but I think there are many other things to consider when implementing automation.
I hear you on the bidirectional link, which is why we track logs of what's changed and make it easy to revert.

We can't really protect against the "hacker" threat, but I'd imagine they'd be looking to do worse than edit a spreadsheet if they had access to your PC.
Thanks for the feedback!

Totally agree on proper editing tools. I'm working on a way to deploy the "apps" via a CLI so that you could have a project with all your SQL / Python then attach that code to a Sheet. This would also allow you to check in your code, etc.

Regarding inserting data: You can enforce strict type and other checks (e.g. making sure a value is of a certain length). I see this being used by scrappier teams where speed is key vs. an enterprise.
Easy to revert isn't anything. If hacker can send SQL queries to your server he can execute shell commands on the server. Look at sqlninja tool's description and usage. And if hacker have your machine he will do worse things of course but if that hacker want to get into someone's computer and he knows that his victim trusts you he will be interested in executing code on his machine or reverse way if hacker got machine owned by someone who you trust he will be interested in executing code on your machine.
I can see that. makes me wonder if there is a sweet spot between consumer and enterprise that could use it.
