Our bot scraps Udemy Coupons and then automatically enrolls you to those paid courses for FREE.
There was a post about it last month [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/Python/comments/izrjbc/i_made_a_python_bot_that_scrapes_udemy_coupons/) and since then we've massively improved the code. 

We've added reusable code, fixed browsers (well, firefox still needs a manual intervention), streamlined the process to be interactive in the terminal, introduced partial CI/CD via github action, integrated styling bot, started using a package manager (Poetry), fixed the zip code issue, and made some more changes which will make it easier to contribute (cleaning up README massively comes to mind, it previously used HTML).

Hope you will like the project, the code is [here](https://github.com/aapatre/Automatic-Udemy-Course-Enroller-GET-PAID-UDEMY-COURSES-for-FREE).
You want to enroll courses without looking at what they consist of? Use this bot. Else, just go to the website that the bot scrapes and see what courses you really want and enroll.

This seems more like free ad for udemy.

If you use OP script, make sure it doesn't mess with your saved credit cards in your browser.
Don't some courses have a limited number of promo coupons, such as the Automate The Boring Stuff one?  I get the intent of your program but see this as quickly creating more issues than benefits.
Most of those free courses you get from the promo codes are garbage
Scrapes*
Anyone else getting hit with a captcha? 

Tried with and without VPN same deal.
does this work with specific courses?

example: enrolling in those courses containing the keyword 'analytics' or 'excel' or 'python' ?
That's mah man
Udemy courses are a joke. Their "expert" courses teach Raspberry Pi recipes lol
do we need to enter credit card info for this? 

my dad would not want to do this and so the only way i can do this is without a damn credit card
Is this Udemian Honey or something
A little tip for anyone as paranoid as me.
DO NOT save your credit card info anywhere on the internet,the only place safe is your head , so bury it in there. It sound over the top since we have more security (or at least we think we do) than in the past decade but your memory,as shitty as it can be is ,the most secure place for such info
Thanks to your feedback, we've implemented skip feature that I just talked about for paid course. Take a look here : https://github.com/aapatre/Automatic-Udemy-Course-Enroller-GET-PAID-UDEMY-COURSES-for-FREE/pull/80
Currently you can select language. Overarching category selection is coming soon (it, lifestyle etc).

About card, yes we figured out how to skip the section entirely if the promo code did not show 0, currently it's advised not to save your card info on the browser.

Using a password manager intermittently solves this issue because selenium starts a new private browsing window.

Thanks for the feedback.
As a lot of you mentioned bank are secure and pretty trustful.
Sure there is such options as using PayPal and having a secure wallet but each one have it's pros and cons but it depends on your preferences.
But I am not the type of guy that just ''deal with it'' if my card get stolen , I don't want to have to go through the trouble of contacting my bank to block my account and wait for a new card to be delivered  ,even if it's just some clicks in an app, I don't want to go through all of the troubles of a stolen credit card or just it's informations , sure there is solutions but getting this far seems a lot of unnecessary troubles to me .
Plus ,it can be a lot of pain to contact your bank and get all of your money back if ever someone else get access to it and use it before you can notice .

Now I get that memorising your infos and input them whenever you need to seems like a boring idea and I get that a lot of people are not concerned about security or  are more at ease when confronted to such troubles ar stolen credit card infos .

It is only my honest opinion on the subject :)
We scrape from tutorialbar and they have coupon gated by time (valid for x days) , not by number of downloads as far as I know (could be wrong).

So if it's gated by time (strong chance) we're not harming genuinely interested blokes by not even trying to redeem number gated content.
That's true. We might implement a filter of "minimum X stars" to get it implemented. Thanks.
sorry , my bad. English is not my first language but yes I should have been careful.
Please solve the captcha manually then close the browser and script and retry.
Not yet. But please open an issue in github to let us know.
Not all of them are bad. Automate the boring stuff is on udemy. Also this project was created from ideas in an udemy course.
No card needed.
I got them to emboss mine on the front of my card.
Too paranoid. I use my cc everywhere. If someone grabs the details and misuses it, just report and they cancel transaction and send new card.
You pay for fraud protection on your credit card every month. That’s nonsense.
I've worked for multiple banks in IT, and when I say that your credit card data is safe with reputable merchant, I mean it. There's a whole line of regulations that are required to be met if any business wants to hold customer financial information.

That's not to say that companies always follow it, but the majority, and the reputable, do it right. So in such cases, it is over the top.
Don't need no credit card to ride this train!
Then use a Paypal or a disposable credit card service.
Better still, create a virtual card and use it. Delete it after using.
My point is to verify that the newly created hobbyist code you are about to run (the OP bot that manipulates your browser) is not malicious or does not do damage due to bugs.
Not sure why you are downvoted so much.. thanks for sharing!
I just manually looked up a course and the coupon is added in the url.

The course wasn't free and when manually applied you get this error.

This coupon has exceeded its maximum possible redemptions and can no longer be used.

So you are very likely taking a place that someone could have actually wanted.

Maybe you should add some sort of selection step before eating all the free codes.
nah. just eat them all and search through owned courses on udemy by key words. You never know which course is good. maybe it has 0 stars now, but in a year it will have a lot of stars. so its Better to collect all courses
It's not my first language either, I want you help you have a better looking post for your product that's all
Hey thanks a ton for the reply!

That was the first thing I tried — even logged in all the way. (from both my masked and unmasked IP addresses). No Luck! Just gonna assume the issue's on my end.

I ended up just searching the urls .txt file for relevant keywords and found a few good courses, thanks!!!
It’s a secret life hack! Don’t tell anyone
[deleted]
Appreciate the correction brother. I didn't take it the wrong way.
This is the first time I'm hearing of this issue of getting constantly hit by captcha. Even our CI bot doesn't get hit by it repeatedly. 

But I'm glad that it is now resolved.
It IS nonsense.

Nobody can “clean you out” on a credit card. It’s not your money, it’s credit, that’s why they call it a credit card.

My credit cards are stored in a digital wallet. My wallet uses multi factor authentication unless I’m at home. I use a password manager that uses unique maximum complexity passwords on every site, and also requires multi factor authentication to log in.

Nobody is stealing enough passwords to make a difference for me, and even if they did, I have 9 lines of credit, only 3 of which are online.

Nobody is saying to be flippant with security. We’re saying to be diligent and intelligent. Your stance seems rooted in fear and/or ignorance to the systems.

Credit cards are wonderful if you know what you’re doing.
Get a better bank if yours isn't preventing it in the first place.  I frequently struggle with my online purchases getting postponed until I call them and confirm that it's me, but it's a fair trade seeing as out of twice that someone has gotten ahold of my CC info, their purchases went through neither time, and one of them was traceable which got the guy good and burned for it.
[deleted]
Of course not, you still need to use reasonable discretion and not just throw your information around wherever, but if you're so scared of someone using your card that you won't store it anywhere, I'm going to say you can certainly find a bank that cares more about your security.
Programmers are not security experts. A lot of people in my work don't give a damn to learn about secure practices by themselves. It's a shame.
[deleted]
Are you sure you’re talking about *credit* and not *debit* cards? If your debit card gets stolen you’re screwed, but with a credit card you just dispute the charges and no money actually leaves your possession.
