is Anaconda secure?
So I've just started using Anaconda, and one thing isn't clear for me. Who is packaging the modules I'm installing, and how can I be sure they match the upstream versions? This problem presents itself moreso with packages from Anaconda cloud.

Say I want to install the ipython debugger ipdb; running

     anaconda search -t conda ipdb

returns 18 packages, which do I choose? After some googling (so I already lost the time savings anaconda is advertised for) I find that some of these have in their description the official github repo - does this mean they are actually pulling from there and I can be sure to install non-altered code? Is there a way to know without googling for the official project page?

Other cases leave me baffled: pywt has three (outdated) packages, of which I can find no official connection to the pywavelets project. Am I supposed to resort to pip in this case?
The main channel is the only one you can truly trust, the rest are community packages. The ipdb package is not officially hosted by continuum, but if that makes you nervous then you can install from pypi where there will be only one package of that name. You still have to trust that the package hasn't been compromised, pypi hasn't been compromised, and your connection hasn't been compromised. 
The Github URL in the description is no guarantee that the package is actually built from that - it's just a description, and the person who wrote it can put whatever they want.

For a pure Python project like ipdb, if it's not in the default channel for `conda install`, I'd use pip to install it. For packages that contain compiled parts, I'd look for an Anaconda channel belonging to a name I know - but that's not much help for newcomers...
> Other cases leave me baffled: pywt has three (outdated) packages, of which I can find no official connection to the pywavelets project. Am I supposed to resort to pip in this case?

If you want to be nice, you can build it yourself and push to your channel so you and others can `conda install` in the future.
agree with you, however also

> install from pypi where there will be only one package of that name.
> 
> You still have to trust that the package hasn't been compromised, 
> pypi hasn't been compromised, and your connection hasn't been 
> compromised. 

or that the author of the package is not malicious or retarted. I could submit a package to pypi right now called 'pandas-ng, pandas for humans' which reimported pandas, added one function, and 'rm -rf ~'....
I guess I should adjust my comment to say "among other things" at the end of my list of potential issues.  I'm not trying to say that those are the only three things to look out for, there's always going to be security vulnerabilities that you didn't expect.
