10 information-stealing packages found in the Python programming language repository, PyPI

A set of shit tier packages that you're unlikely to be using.

* Ascii2text. The code was responsible for downloading and executing a malicious script that searches for local passwords and loads them using a discord web hook.
* Pyg-utils, Pymocks, and PyProto2. As part of the setup.py installation, Pyg-utils is associated with a malicious domain (pygrata.com) which may be the infrastructure of a phishing attack. Interestingly, Pymocks and PyProto2 have nearly identical code targeting a different domain – pymocks.com.
* asynchronous test. It’s described in its description as “a very cool and very useful test package that everyone 100% needs”. In its setup.py installer, it downloads and executes most likely malicious code from the web. Interestingly, before this snippet is downloaded, it notifies the Discord channel of a “new playback” start.
* Free-net-vpn and Free-net-vpn2 They are malicious packages that target environment variables. These secrets are then propagated to a specific site by the dynamic DNS mapping service.
* zips, Probably to try to confuse PyPI users with the popular Python package included with zlib.
* Browsersteals the installer’s credentials and sends them to a web link on Discord as part of the installation process.
WINRPCexpoitIt describes itself as a “Windows RPC exploit package” when in fact it only steals the credentials of the installer.
That’s why I’m always super cautious when typing a pip install command. That thing is scary
Isn't there any authority that can review and remove these packages fron pypi?
Thank you for the quick hit.
It’s funny how some of these packages even have names that basically suggest they’re fishy. Pymocks? Great name for malware! I wonder what the package was actually marketed for, if anything at all…
Discord has become the new IRC. And it's centralized.

They need to be held accountable for this sort of abuse.
Would it be sufficient to check for a working documentation link & the last commit date in the source code, before installing a package the first time?
Yes, and whenever packages get reported like this that’s exactly what happens. They also always are this type of typosquatting “hope you fall for it and install this one instead of the one you actually meant” package. 

But if news sites were honest about that they wouldn’t be able to get the juicy headlines they want.
I don't see how Pymocks is a fishy name. If I were to build a library for mocking, I would probably give it a similar name.
Ah, I didn’t know mocking was a separate concept in this space.
Typically "mocking" refers to a sort of "simulated" dependency for testing purposes.

An example might be mocking database stuff where your "mock" just provides some fake data generated on the fly or read from a local file, rather than pummeling the database tons of times for real data.
Ohh I see, that makes total sense given the meaning of the word. Thanks for taking the time to clarify! Today I learned.
