Typosquatting PyPi and taking over thousands of hosts

Well.. That's pretty disturbing. Thanks for the research and the thinking. It makes sense, but somehow I never fully realized that this is such a large security hole. 
This is very important. I've been worrying for a long time about the consequences of executing all that untrusted code from PyPI.  And yet at the same time its such a critical resource.  I think a good first step would be to introduce a 'flag as spam or malicious' button on each package, in the same way that [Atom](https://atom.io/packages) does.
I wonder if the warehouse project is doing anything to make this harder to accomplish
And that's why real package managers like dpkg use stuff like PGP keys.
It's the same for all package managers and other open-network-fetching resources; the attack surface is huge, from MITM to typosquatting...

Pip has no "buttons"; you would need some sort of web-based feedback form. By the time you've realized your mistake, setup.py has already run anyway, and your server is now a spambot. 

The main action item really is for archive managers to periodically review typosquatter candidates, either manually or in a semiautomated way. If necessary, make people jump through more hoops when you upload or register your package name.

And for god's sake don't run pip as root, that's just asking for trouble.
As far as I know, no, Warehouse (which is running at [pypi.io](https://pypi.io/)) is equally susceptible to this.
I encountered warehouse. It is basically finished since several years, but nobody uses it. It seems to be a dead birth.
How would that help in this case? If the squatters just uploaded their key and signed their package, it would show up as valid.

Unless you mean for there to be a more formal acceptance process of the packages into pip as with the debian repository (for example), but that would make pip a much less inclusive repository and greatly increase the administrative overhead of checking package validity.

It seems like the options in the "Defenses against typo squatting" of that post are probably better.
I'm curious how you think that would prevent a typo-based attack.

What downstream packagers (like debian, red hat, et al) provide is a controlled environment with vetted packages where typo versions can't be included.
> And that's why real package managers like dpkg use stuff like PGP keys.

https://caremad.io/2013/07/packaging-signing-not-holy-grail/
> By the time you've realized your mistake, setup.py has already run anyway

Right, but if you do realise that there's a problem, a flagging system would let you help protect others from that problem. It can't stop the attack entirely, but it can reduce the number of people affected, and that would make PyPI a less attractive target.
Warehouse is under active development.
Its an additional security. If the package can't be validated with your preinstalled keychain, the package manager warns that the package is untrusted.
Sure, it would help if there was a clear and quick process to contact archive maintainers, be it a webform, email or twitter account you can ping. A webform process could probably be made smart enough to automatically block a package after X flags go up -- although you've then got the problem of false positives and potential DDOSing of legitimate packages.

I guess that's more of a people problem than a technical one.
That would imply a manageably small keychain, which is not a possibility in an environment like PyPI.
