Open Sourcing a Python Project the Right Way in 2024
I recently open-sourced a package and the tooling was a bit of a struggle. I decided to write down the steps & all the tools needed to open-source a Python package in a scalable way that invite users and contributors. 

https://jonathanadly.com/open-sourcing-a-python-project-the-right-way-in-2024

Happy to hear your feedback! 
This is really nice, I use most of these steps for almost all my python repos, pyproject toml, README etc

1 suggestion, I think it would be nice to introduce the source layout as well (placing the package in the src directory), I personally like the source layout because its neater
You forgot pre-commit hooks.
Good right up. Thank you
Fantastic read, I enjoyed them
U must have use a turtle py because you haven't use the expenses much more uses of user
Good read , I really enjoyed it 😄
Why cookiecutter and not pyscaffold?
Just going to note that absolutely none of that is necessary to open source something. The minimal requirement to open source something is to place it under an appropriate license. You don't even need a website. You can print the code on paper, you can send the file by email… whatever. My point is that if someone wants to open source their first not so serious project, all those steps are going to be overwhelming… and while they are certainly useful for an established project they certainly aren't needed from day 1.

Talking more sensibly, if you want users you need to be on pypi, but that's only valid for modules. Application users do not use pypi so to them it doesn't matter. They want an installer if they are on windows or want the project to be already in their distribution if they are on linux. You didn't mention distributions at all :)

I personally am against using github CI to upload packages to pypi and do it from my machine. Also worth noting that pytorch got pwned 2 times by doing that. Once by a malicious actor who infected a number of users.

Also, I think google (who paid for trusted publishers) and microsoft are trying to eliminate anonymity among contributors of open source (a google employee wrote it a blog post) with the purpose of being able to ban entire nationalities when the white house says so. Last time it happened to russians (whether they support the war or not)… next time it could be me, I'm not a USA citizen. I would prefer citizenship to be irrelevant in this context.

pytest is not really required to have tests. `unittest` is part of the python standard library. Remember fewer dependencies you download, the easier it is to actually run the test :)

as per usual on this sub, I'm expecting to be downvoted.

edit: some of you assholes reported me as suicidal… top notch community as usual.
