Safely Convert questionable URL to PDF?
In the land of phishing attempts and general security curiosity, is it possible to "check out" a potential bad webpage without visiting the webpage via a browser and potentially downloading the payload? 

Scenario:  Boss calls you after he clicked on a link an email that he now admits was a phishing email. He luckily didn't enter his user/password, but he did visit the page.  So the question is, how do you "visit" the webpage, to see how bad it is, in a safe manner? 

I was thinking about my first attempt would be to use python to download the actual URL and save it as a PDF.  The theory is, since I'm not hitting it from, say, Chrome, I might not be running some malicious javascript. 

I have this simple python script that does pull down a PDF and converts it to a PDF on your computer. 

    import pdfkit
    pdfkit.from_url('http://url_to_checkout.com','webpage_as_PDF.pdf') 

Would accessing a URL via python and something like pdfkit be a 'safe' way to start checking out a webpage that is probably bad?  

&#x200B;

What's a safe way to download the actual source code of a page, without actually running javascript/potential other bad files?   I thought the output should save it as a PDF or TXT so it wouldn't "contact homebase" in a sense. 

Thanks!
That’s a pretty neat idea. You would probably want to have some way of watermarking the document with the url, what the names of form elements are. It might be helpful to generate another page from what happens if you put random stuff in the username and password.
It's not a programmatic approach, but you could launch a "burner" virtual machine (like an EC2 instance in AWS) and connect to it from there.  If there's nothing to lose on the machine and you're just going to trash it immediately afterward, no risk.  Check out the source using your regular tools, Chrome DevTools or whatever.

One thing to watch though is the URL's query string.  If the purpose of the malicious URL is to determine whether an email is active, the query string could contain an ID linked to that email address.  You probably want to either remove or corrupt query strings, but doing so might not give you the same result.
