Introducing Django Ray

Huh?  The very first thing you need to put on this page is a more succinct description of the project.  Let me try: You've created a browser-based IDE that's intended to be used by designers working on a Django project.  Amirite?
Reminds me a lot of the browser-based IDE that comes with web2py. It will be interesting to see how people react to this considering how people have reacted to the web2py implementation (which is not limited to only template files).
Seems similar to the system I've been working on lately (http://github.com/coderanger/pynomic), except it isn't tied to GAE and doesn't let you edit code.
but... why?

What time or effort is saved by this? Designers who write HTML, CSS, JS, etc all have favorite editors already.
What an awesome project! Could something like this be set up to remotely work on a django site? all files, not just templates
I'm curious, how is the result meant to end up in a VCS? Because, like, if it's not in the VCS then it doesn't exist.
Seems like this should use Bespin.  That also includes version control management, which would be handy for this.

Nice approach... somehow reminds me of a "Wordpress theme editor deluxe"... but definitely has its place in the django world. Can be especially useful if you want to fix HTML/CSS/Javascript quirks in IE, but develop your django project under linux. 
This sounds really useful to me!  Often I need front end ammends done but there's too much involved in getting a front ender who's never used Django to set up a working build and database.  Top stuff.
Through the Web Editing for Django. Django, meet Zope. Zope did this in '98. We mostly moved away from it, but I think there are useful things we could bring back (to Grok):

http://faassen.n--tree.net/blog/view/weblog/2008/09/19/0

I like the idea, but wonder how it's distinct from something like [bespin](https://bespin.mozilla.com/) 

Maybe you can use bespin as a base? which gives you some scm, test and deployment built in.
+1 to Django Ray
Upvoted. I very much dislike how I have to scour the entire article announcing a new project/product, looking for wtf it is exactly. I finally realized what it is after I found "not TextMate, Emacs or VIM" and it put it in perspective.
It's kinda hard to be concise while saying all I want to say. It's easy to dismiss this project for what it's not and the fact that I'm French does not help me to express my ideas in English as well as I would like.

That said, *any* kind of help or contribution is more than welcome ;)
Okey, so IIUC, the tagline for this could be :
Template editing TTW for django (through the web) - Or Zope meets Django 
Can you elaborate a bit on that said reaction sir ?
Yeh it's cool but I can't see the designers I work with giving up on their editors. To be honest I'd hate writing Python within a fancy textarea in a browser so it's understandable.
Well it depends pretty much on your development process and who you work with .. this project is certainly not a solution for everybody.
In theory yes, there is also syntax highlighting for Python. However .. I'm not sure I would suggest it since some operations requires to restart the server (plus security concerns ..).
This is exactly what [web2py does](http://web2py.com/demo_admin). Because of the different architecture in web2py you can edit any file and never need to restart the server.
This is why I need SVN integration .. it will work a bit like tortoise svn works ..
Yeah .. I would really like to have used Bespin. There is LOTS of interesting feature in it (the console and VCS integration namely), but after trying to integrate it I quickly realized it was not quite ready for prime time and that it was way to much work to integrate.

I would have ended up using it in standalone mode (losing most interesting features) and for what it's worth, Ray is currently build so the editor is completely encapsulated for the rest.. which means I can replace if I want.
Running bespin full fledged (with command line, VCS integration, file browser etc..) requires to use their backend .. which is something different than django. Their approach is very similar to what I want to do but not framework specific .. Initially I though I could tweak bespin to meet my needs but it has proven to be more difficult to do than to say.

Edit: eventually a plan to support other editors (I know of a javascript Vim implementation and bespin can be used standalone ..). And even adding support for basic image manipulation (like resize/crop) could be a nice addition..
Hey man, don't take it as an insult.  It takes balls to think that both an idea and your implementation of said idea is good enough to release to the world.  It's certainly a cool looking project with a lot of promise.  But us developers have a short attention span.  

Write a one sentence description of the project and put it at the top of the page.  Sample code is also very good (though maybe not completely applicable to yoru project) These guys are doing it right:  http://cukes.info/
The reactions have been mixed  from what I have read. Some love it, some hate it (surprise!).

The majority of the naysayers bring up the point that browser based editing can be security risk - if someone can get in, they can change your code. Obviously, this can be disabled on production in web2py, and looks like your system can be too. I say +1 for Django Ray - I like the idea. 
On one hand, this can be easily replaced by the SSH functionality in many editors. On the other hand, I don't need to give the designer SSH access to the whole machine or explain how to use it. On the third hand, I don't need to open another way for malicious people to steal/screw up my code.

Never before has a project divided me so much.
I believe this issue is now fixed ;)
Well first it depends if you have to work with designers. If you don't, you're probably better off to stick to your actual methods ..

> On the third hand, I don't need to open another way for malicious people to steal/screw up my code.

This is not the case now because it's only a working prototype, but eventually to access the editor you will have to first log on the admin interface .. I see it as a security concern only if you give the editor access to the main project's folder (instead of just media/ and templates/) or you give access to malicious people ..
I'm more concerned about bugs/holes in the actual software, even when it's finalised. There are vulnerabilities discovered in software every day, so your best bet regarding security is to use as little of it as you can.
As a ISP owner once told me; the only perfectly secure computer is an unplugged one.
That's why I'm not talking about perfect security but about a balance of security and usability.
