
		
Tens of cybersecurity mergers and acquisitions were announced in May 2021, including by Imperva, Accenture, Cisco, HelpSystems, Splunk, Twilio, and Zscaler.
May 1-9
Acuant acquires Hello Soda
Identity verification and fraud prevention company Acuant acquired UK-based identity verification and KYC solutions provider Hello Soda. Acuant said the acquisition will help it improve its products and strengthen its position in the digital identity market.
Aryaka acquires Secucloud
WAN and SASE solutions provider Aryaka announced that it completed the acquisition of Secucloud, a Germany-based company that has developed a SASE platform. Aryaka said it will be able to provide better managed SD-WAN and SASE solutions for enterprise customers as a result of the deal.
Ascend Technologies acquires Switchfast Technologies
IT solutions provider Ascend Technologies announced buying Switchfast Technologies, which specializes in customized IT services. Both companies provide — among several others — cybersecurity services, and Ascend said the deal will enable it to offer a brader portfolio of services and solutions, including network monitoring and cybersecurity assessments.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
if (!window.AdButler){(function(){var s = document.createElement("script"); s.async = true; s.type = "text/javascript";s.src = 'https://ads.securityweek.com/app.js';var n = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; n.parentNode.insertBefore(s, n);}());}

var AdButler = AdButler || {}; AdButler.ads = AdButler.ads || [];
var abkw = window.abkw || '';
var plc605204 = window.plc605204 || 0;
document.write('<'+'div id="placement_605204_'+plc605204+'"></'+'div>');
AdButler.ads.push({handler: function(opt){ AdButler.register(179018, 605204, [300,250], 'placement_605204_'+opt.place, opt); }, opt: { place: plc605204++, keywords: abkw, domain: 'ads.securityweek.com', click:'CLICK_MACRO_PLACEHOLDER' }});

Databarracks acquires 4sl
Business continuity and disaster recovery solutions provider Databarracks purchased 4sl, which specializes in managed data recovery and backup services for companies in regulated sectors. Both companies are based in the UK.
EPAM Systems acquires White-Hat
US-based enterprise software development company EPAM Systems acquired Israel-based cybersecurity services firm White-Hat. EPAM said the goal of the acquisition is to expand its cybersecurity expertise portfolio and diversify EMEA delivery capabilities.
Forcepoint acquires Cyberinc
Behavior-based cybersecurity solutions provider Forcepoint acquired Cyberinc, a company that specializes in remote browser isolation technology designed to help organizations reduce risks and attack surface. Forcepoint will use the acquired technology to improve its SASE platform.
Gimmal acquires Sherpa Software
Information governance solutions provider Gimmal has acquired Sherpa Software, which specializes in data governance and eDiscovery solutions for enterprises. Sherpa has merged into Gimmal and its technology will help the company expand its eDiscovery and data governance capabilities.
Intermediate Capital Group (ICG) acquires minority stake in 6point6
UK-based global alternative asset manager ICG acquired a minority stake in 6point6, a UK-based provider of cybersecurity and other IT services. Terms of the deal have not been made public, but the deal values 6point6 at $100 million.
Imperva acquires CloudVector
Cybersecurity firm Imperva acquired API security company CloudVector. Imperva said the acquisition will enable it to improve its API security solutions.
Infobip acquires Anam Technologies
Croatia-based IT and telecoms company Infobip acquired Ireland-based Anam Technologies, which is known for its SMS firewall service. Infobip wants to provide a “high level of security and protection of messages to mobile operators.”
Kordia acquires Base2
State-owned communications and cybersecurity firm Kordia has acquired Base2, which provides managed IT, network, and cybersecurity solutions. Both companies are based in New Zealand. Base2 will operate as an independent business unit of Kordia.
LiveAction acquires CounterFlow AI
Network performance management firm LiveAction acquired CounterFlow AI, which provides network detection and response solutions. LiveAction said the deal will enable it to provide “a unified network performance monitoring and diagnostics (NPMD) platform that incorporates encrypted traffic analysis for security incident detection and response.”
OneTrust acquires Shared Assessments
Security and compliance solutions provider OneTrust acquired third-party risk management company Shared Assessments. The goal is to enable Shared Assessment to further scale the availability and adoption of the Standardized Information Gathering Questionnaire (SIG), which is one of the most widely used third-party risk standards, used by over 15,000 companies. Shared Assessments will remain a vendor-neutral industry organization.
RIA in a Box acquires ITEGRIA
Compliance, cybersecurity, and operational software solutions provider RIA in a Box acquired ITEGRIA, which offers cloud-based virtual desktop solutions for registered investment advisors (RIAs). RIA in a Box said the deal will help it enhance its cybersecurity and operational offerings for RIA firms.
Sectigo acquires SiteLock
Digital certificate management and web security firm Sectigo bought SiteLock, a website security and monitoring provider. The acquisition also includes Patchman, a Dutch web security provider that SiteLock acquired in 2017. Following the acquisition, SiteLock will operate as a separate business unit within Sectigo.
SGS acquires Brightsight
Swiss inspection, verification, testing and certification company SGS acquired Brightsight, a Dutch cybersecurity evaluation laboratory network for chip-based payment systems, identity solutions and IoT platforms. SGS said the deal is part of its strategy to “become the global TIC leader in cybersecurity.”
May 10-16
Absolute Software acquires NetMotion
Endpoint security and data risk management company Absolute Software announced an agreement to acquire NetMotion, a company that specializes in secure access solutions, for $340 million in cash. The acquisition will help Absolute expand its product offering and sales channels.
Accenture acquires Linkbynet
Consulting giant Accenture announced buying Linkbynet, a France-based cloud services provider that offers cloud optimization, transformation and security services. Accenture says the deal will help it enhance the capabilities of its Cloud First solutions.
Centricus Acquisition Corp. merges with Arqit Limited
Quantum encryption technology firm Arqit Limited is merging with Centricus Acquisition Corp., a publicly-traded special purpose acquisition company. Arqit has developed encryption technology that should secure communications against any type of attack, including attacks that involve a quantum computer. As a result of the transaction, Arqit will become a publicly listed company.
Cisco acquires Kenna Security
Networking giant Cisco is purchasing Kenna Security, a cybersecurity company focused on vulnerability management technology. Cisco said Kenna’s technology, which integrates with all major vulnerability assessment platforms, will be integrated into its SecureX platform.
CWSI acquires AVR International
Ireland-based mobile and cloud security firm CWSI is acquiring AVR International, a UK-based provider of cyber and cloud security services, in a deal that values AVR at up to €5.2 million ($6.3 million). CWSI said the acquisition will help accelerate its UK growth.
HelpSystems acquires Agari and Beyond Security
Cybersecurity and automation solutions provider HelpSystems announced two acquisitions in May: email security company Agari and vulnerability assessment and compliance solutions firm Beyond Security. The goal is to enhance HelpSystems’ data security and infrastructure protection portfolios.
Fidelis Cybersecurity acquires CloudPassage
Extended detection and response (XDR) provider Fidelis Cybersecurity announced the acquisition of cloud security and compliance company CloudPassage in an effort to enhance its active XDR platform.
Jamf acquires Wandera
Jamf, a provider of enterprise management solutions for Apple devices, has acquired Wandera, which specializes in zero trust cloud security and access for mobile devices, for $400 million in cash. Jamf said the acquisition will help it extend its mobile security and access capabilities.
NCC Group acquires IPM business of Iron Mountain
UK-based cybersecurity firm NCC Group is acquiring the intellectual property management (IPM) business of US-based storage and information management services firm Iron Mountain for $220 million. Iron Mountain said it decided to sell its IPM business to “focus on its core strengths.”
secunet acquires stashcat
Cybersecurity solutions provider secunet Security Networks is acquiring stashcat, an enterprise communications application that includes file storage and video conferencing functionality. Both companies are based in Germany. Secunet said the acquisition enables it to expand its offering.
May 17-31
Belcan acquires VICTOR42
Belcan, an AE Industrial Partners-owned company that provides engineering, consulting and technical services for the aerospace, defense, automotive, government and industrial sectors, announced the acquisition of VICTOR42, a firm that provides technology, intelligence and cybersecurity solutions for government and private sector organizations. Belcan says the deal will help it expand its offerings.
Crossword Cybersecurity acquires Verifiable Credentials Limited
Cybersecurity and risk management firm Crossword Cybersecurity announced buying Verifiable Credentials Limited (VCL), which has developed middleware technology for verifiable credentials systems. Both companies are based in the UK. Crossword has acquired VCL in an effort to expand and will pay £2.75 million ($3.9 million) for the company.
Gryphon Investors acquires Iceberg Networks
Private equity firm Gryphon Investors announced acquiring three companies in May, including Iceberg Networks, which provides security operations management and governance, risk and compliance, and integrated risk management solutions.
Intuity Technologies merges with myITdepartment
Managed IT services provider Intuity Technologies announced a merger with managed services provider myITdepartment. The companies, both based in Ireland, will offer a wide range of services, including cybersecurity, to small and medium enterprises.
Nuvias Group acquires Cloud Distribution
Nuvias Group, a provider of security, agility and manageability services, is purchasing Cloud Distribution, which provides cybersecurity, networking and SaaS solutions. Both companies are based in the UK. The acquisition is part of Nuvias Group’s expansion strategy.
Relativity acquires Text IQ
Legal and compliance technology firm Relativity is buying Text IQ, which uses AI to manage and mitigate risks in enterprise data. Relativity says the deal enables it to expand its product offerings.
Twilio acquires Ionic Security
Customer engagement solutions provider Twilio is acquiring data security platform Ionic Security. Twilio said the acquisition helps it address security and compliance challenges. Ionic’s technology will be integrated into Twilio products and will no longer be offered as a standalone platform.
Splunk acquires TruSTAR
Machine data solutions firm Splunk is acquiring TruSTAR, a company that provides a threat intelligence platform. Splunk says the acquisition will help extend its security analytics capabilities.
Zscaler acquires Smokescreen
Cloud security company Zscaler is buying active defense and deception technology firm Smokescreen. The goal is to use Smokescreen technology to enhance Zscaler’s Zero Trust Exchange product and provide threat intelligence and telemetry for the Zscaler team.
Related: Cybersecurity M&A Roundup: 31 Deals Announced in April 2021
			