
		
A total of 16 cybersecurity-related acquisitions were announced in the first part of May 2021 (May 1-9).
Acuant acquires Hello Soda
Identity verification and fraud prevention company Acuant acquired UK-based identity verification and KYC solutions provider Hello Soda. Acuant said the acquisition will help it improve its products and strengthen its position in the digital identity market.
Aryaka acquires Secucloud
WAN and SASE solutions provider Aryaka announced that it completed the acquisition of Secucloud, a Germany-based company that has developed a SASE platform. Aryaka said it will be able to provide better managed SD-WAN and SASE solutions for enterprise customers as a result of the deal.
Ascend Technologies acquires Switchfast Technologies
IT solutions provider Ascend Technologies announced buying Switchfast Technologies, which specializes in customized IT services. Both companies provide — among several others — cybersecurity services, and Ascend said the deal will enable it to offer a brader portfolio of services and solutions, including network monitoring and cybersecurity assessments.
Databarracks acquires 4slAdvertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
if (!window.AdButler){(function(){var s = document.createElement("script"); s.async = true; s.type = "text/javascript";s.src = 'https://ads.securityweek.com/app.js';var n = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; n.parentNode.insertBefore(s, n);}());}

var AdButler = AdButler || {}; AdButler.ads = AdButler.ads || [];
var abkw = window.abkw || '';
var plc605204 = window.plc605204 || 0;
document.write('<'+'div id="placement_605204_'+plc605204+'"></'+'div>');
AdButler.ads.push({handler: function(opt){ AdButler.register(179018, 605204, [300,250], 'placement_605204_'+opt.place, opt); }, opt: { place: plc605204++, keywords: abkw, domain: 'ads.securityweek.com', click:'CLICK_MACRO_PLACEHOLDER' }});

Business continuity and disaster recovery solutions provider Databarracks purchased 4sl, which specializes in managed data recovery and backup services for companies in regulated sectors. Both companies are based in the UK.
EPAM Systems acquires White-Hat
US-based enterprise software development company EPAM Systems acquired Israel-based cybersecurity services firm White-Hat. EPAM said the goal of the acquisition is to expand its cybersecurity expertise portfolio and diversify EMEA delivery capabilities.
Forcepoint acquires Cyberinc
Behavior-based cybersecurity solutions provider Forcepoint acquired Cyberinc, a company that specializes in remote browser isolation technology designed to help organizations reduce risks and attack surface. Forcepoint will use the acquired technology to improve its SASE platform.
Gimmal acquires Sherpa Software
Information governance solutions provider Gimmal has acquired Sherpa Software, which specializes in data governance and eDiscovery solutions for enterprises. Sherpa has merged into Gimmal and its technology will help the company expand its eDiscovery and data governance capabilities.
Intermediate Capital Group (ICG) acquires minority stake in 6point6
UK-based global alternative asset manager ICG acquired a minority stake in 6point6, a UK-based provider of cybersecurity and other IT services. Terms of the deal have not been made public, but the deal values 6point6 at $100 million.
Imperva acquires CloudVector
Cybersecurity firm Imperva acquired API security company CloudVector. Imperva said the acquisition will enable it to improve its API security solutions.
Infobip acquires Anam Technologies
Croatia-based IT and telecoms company Infobip acquired Irelend-based Anam Technologies, which is known for its SMS firewall service. Infobip wants to provide a “high level of security and protection of messages to mobile operators.”
Kordia acquires Base2
State-owned communications and cybersecurity firm Kordia has acquired Base2, which provides managed IT, network, and cybersecurity solutions. Both companies are based in New Zealand. Base2 will operate as an independent business unit of Kordia.
LiveAction acquires CounterFlow AI
Network performance management firm LiveAction acquired CounterFlow AI, which provides network detection and response solutions. LiveAction said the deal will enable it to provide “a unified network performance monitoring and diagnostics (NPMD) platform that incorporates encrypted traffic analysis for security incident detection and response.”
OneTrust acquires Shared Assessments
Security and compliance solutions provider OneTrust acquired third-party risk management company Shared Assessments. The goal is to enable Shared Assessment to further scale the availability and adoption of the Standardized Information Gathering Questionnaire (SIG), which is one of the most widely used third-party risk standards, used by over 15,000 companies. Shared Assessments will remain a vendor-neutral industry organization.
RIA in a Box acquires ITEGRIA
Compliance, cybersecurity, and operational software solutions provider RIA in a Box acquired ITEGRIA, which offers cloud-based virtual desktop solutions for registered investment advisors (RIAs).  RIA in a Box said the deal will help it enhance its cybersecurity and operational offerings for RIA firms.
Sectigo acquires SiteLock
Digital certificate management and web security firm Sectigo bought SiteLock, a website security and monitoring provider. The acquisition also includes Patchman, a Dutch web security provider that SiteLock acquired in 2017. Following the acquisition, SiteLock will operate as a separate business unit within Sectigo.
SGS acquires Brightsight
Swiss inspection, verification, testing and certification company SGS acquired Brightsight, a Dutch cybersecurity evaluation laboratory network for chip-based payment systems, identity solutions and IoT platforms. SGS said the deal is part of its strategy to “become the global TIC leader in cybersecurity.”
Related: Cybersecurity M&A Roundup: 31 Deals Announced in April 2021
Related: Cybersecurity M&A Roundup: 40 Deals Announced in March 2021
			