Categories



Fortinet News & Updates




FortiGuard Labs Threat Research




Industry Trends & Insights




Life at Fortinet




Partners




Customer Success Stories




PSIRT Blogs

Fortinet News & Updates
FortiGuard Labs Threat Research
Industry Trends & Insights
Life at Fortinet
Partners
Customer Success Stories
PSIRT Blogs
Fortinet News & Updates
FortiGuard Labs Threat Research
Industry Trends & Insights
Life at Fortinet
Partners
Customer Success Stories
PSIRT Blogs
CISO Collective
Subscribe
FortiGuard Labs Threat Research
Ransomware Roundup – Shinra and Limpopo Ransomware
FortiGuard Labs gathers data on ransomware variants of interest that have been gaining traction within our datasets and the OSINT community. The Ransomware Roundup report aims to provide readers with brief insights into the evolving ransomware landscape and the Fortinet solutions that protect against those variants.
This edition of the Ransomware Roundup covers the Shinra and Limpopo ransomware.
Affected platforms: Microsoft Windows, VMWare ESXi

Impacted parties: Microsoft Windows and VMWare ESXi Users

Impact: Encrypts victims' files and demands ransom for file decryption

Severity level: High
Shinra Ransomware Overview
The Shinra ransomware was first submitted to a publicly available file-scanning service in April 2024. The threat actor steals victims' data before deploying and running its ransomware malware to encrypt files. The ransomware is also designed to delete Volume Shadow Copies to inhibit system recovery.
Since threat actors sometimes use the names of subcultural characters and organizations, we wondered if Shinra was borrowed from the criminal corporation in the Final Fantasy 7 game, but unfortunately, we found no such evidence.
Infection Vector
Information on the infection vector used by the Shinra ransomware threat actor is unavailable. However, it is not likely to differ significantly from other ransomware groups.
Victimology
The Shinra ransomware samples were submitted to a publicly available file scanning service from Israel, Poland, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
Attack Method
One of the Shinra ransomware samples (SHA2: 31eec61ed6866e0b4b3d6b26a3a7d65fed040df61062dd468a1f5be8cc709de7) performs the following actions:
The Shinra ransomware sample copies itself to the current user's startup folder in the start menu as <ID>.exe, where <ID> is 32 hex characters.
It then terminates processes whose names contain any of the following strings:

supervise	Culture	Defwatch	winword
QBW32	QBDBMgr	qbupdate	axlbridge
httpd	fdlauncher	MsDtSrvr	java
360se	360doctor	wdswfsafe	fdhost
GDscan	ZhuDongFangYu	QBDBMgrN	mysqld
AutodeskDesktopApp	acwebbrowser	Creative Cloud	Adobe Desktop Service
CoreSync	Adobe CEF	Helper	node
AdobeIPCBroker	sync-taskbar	sync-worker	InputPersonalization
AdobeCollabSync	BrCtrlCntr	BrCcUxSys	SimplyConnectionManager
Simply.SystemTrayIcon	fbguard	fbserver	ONENOTEM
wsa_service	koaly-exp-engine-se		
It also terminates services whose names contain any of the following strings:

SavRoam	Sqlservr	sqlagent	sqladhlp
Culserver	RTVscan	sqlbrowser	SQLADHLP
QBIDPService	Intuit.QuickBooks.FCS	QBCFMonitorService	msmdsrv
tomcat6	zhudongfangyu	vmware-usbarbitator64	vmware-converter
dbsrv12	dbeng8	MSSQL$MICROSOFT##WID	MSSQL$VEEAMSQL2012
SQLAgent$VEEAMSQL2012	SQLBrowser	SQLWriter	FishbowlMySQL
MSSQL$MICROSOFT##WID	MySQL57	MSSQL$KAV_CS_ADMIN_KIT	MSSQLServerADHelper100
SQLAgent$KAV_CS_ADMIN_KIT	msftesql-Exchange	MSSQL$MICROSOFT##SSEE	MSSQL$SBSMONITORING
MS			
The Shinra ransomware replaces the desktop wallpaper by changing the following registry setting:

HKCU\Control Panel\Desktop\Wallpaper to point to C:\ProgramData\<ID>.bmp
The ransomware sets the following registry keys:

HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\OEMInformation
Manifucator
SupportPhone

Manifucator
SupportPhone
HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\System
“legalnoticecaption” = “Encrypted by Kuza”
“legalnoticetext” = “Email us for recovery: ethan@...” message

“legalnoticecaption” = “Encrypted by Kuza”
“legalnoticetext” = “Email us for recovery: ethan@...” message
It also uses wevtutil.exe to enumerate and clear Windows logs.
The ransomware does not encrypt files with the following extensions:

.iso	.shinra2		
The ransomware does not encrypt files in directories containing the following strings:

Windows photo viewer	Windows nt	msbuild	internet explorer
System volume information	Windows.old	google	application data
Windows defender	Windows	perflog	Windows security
Windowspowershell	microsoft	boot	Windows journal
microsoft shared	common files	appdata	usoshared
$Windows.~ws	all users	Windowsapp	microsoft.net
It avoids encrypting the following files:

thumbs.db	iconcache.db		
Oddly enough, the Shinra ransomware also includes a different list of file extensions, but we could not find any code using this list. It’s possible that the list is for future development or leftover code that wasn’t removed. The list contains the following extensions:

.dbs	.dbt	.dbv	.frm	.mdf	.mrg
.mwb	.myd	.ndf	.qry	.sdb	.sdf
.sql	.tmd	.wdb	.bz2	.tgz	.lzo
.db	.7z	.sqlite	.accdb	sqlite3	.sqlitedb
.db-wal	.db-shm	.dacpac	.1c	.1cd	.vmdk
.vmem	.iso	.tar	.fdb	.csv	.mdb
.sl2	.mpd	.rsd	.tdb	.tib	
The Shinra ransomware uses COM to run the following commands to delete shadow copies, making file recovery difficult:

SELECT * FROM Win32_ShadowCopy
C:\\Windows\\System32\\wbem\\WMIC.exe shadowcopy where \"ID='%s'\" delete"
It then appends “.[ethan@[removed].info].SHINRA2” to the infected files.
Other Shinra ransomware variants add different file extensions, such as ".SHINRA3," ".SHINRA7," and ".SHINRA9" instead of ".SHINRA2."
Also, some of the samples change the file icon of the encrypted files, as seen in this screenshot:
The ransomware executes the following command to change the "boot status policy" settings so that Windows starts normally regardless of any boot errors:

“bcdedit.exe /set {default} bootstatuspolicy ignoreallfailures”
It also executes the following command, which disables the recovery and repair functions of Windows:

“bcdedit.exe /set {default} recoveryenabled no”.
The ransomware then restarts itself using "runas admin" to ensure that it is running with administrator privileges.
The malware also checks to make sure it’s running inside a targeted operating system by:

Using the “VerifyVersionInfo” API to ensure the Windows version is at least 6.0 (Windows Vista/Server 2008)
By checking whether rstrtmgr.dll (Windows Reset Manager) can be loaded
The ransomware silently empties the Recycle Bin without user confirmation, progress bar, or sound.
Finally, it drops a ransom note, which demands victims to contact the attacker via email:
Limpopo Ransomware Overview
In March of this year, FortiGuard Labs received an inquiry from an Asian law enforcement agency about ransomware named “Socotra” due to its impact in that region. While no sample of the Socorta ransomware has surfaced to date, we were able to trace it back to another ransomware, Limpopo, which was submitted to a publicly available file scanning service in February 2024 that targets ESXi environments.
Information on the infection vector used by the Limpopo ransomware threat actor is unavailable. Given that BushidoToken's tweet reported that this malware is affecting Latin America and Thailand, in addition to the previous inquiry about Socorta ransomware from Asia, it is not hard to imagine that they are spreading the ransomware widely in some way, such as through Trojanized software or by exploiting vulnerabilities.
Based on the locations from which ransom notes likely used by the Limpopo ransomware family were submitted to the publicly available scanning service, the countries of Chile, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Italy, Mexico, Peru, Spain, Thailand, the United States, and Vietnam were potentially affected.
The Limpopo ransomware is not complex.
Once executed, the Limpopo ransomware encrypts files with the following extensions:

.vmx2	.vmxf	.vmss	.vmtx	.vmtm
.nvram	.vsb	.vbm	.vlb	.vrb
.hlog	.rar	.vsm	.vsm	.vbk
.zip	.iso	.tgz	.bco	.dump
.gzip	.bck	.bkp	.tmp	.vmx
.ova	.ovf	.tar	.vmd	.vmsn
Once files have been encrypted, a “.LIMPOPO” extension is added to the filename. Files with this extension are skipped and effectively whitelisted.
It then drops the following ransom note:
Hi. We have your data. If you don't cooperate it will be made public. Go to hxxps://getsession[.]org/
Download

 install
then add [removed] mention this code LIMPOPO in your message

 get in touch with us
No other samples of the Limpopo ransomware were found, but we found similar ransom notes that may have been used by ransomware variants. For example, the Socorta ransomware, a potential Limpopo variant, drops the following ransom note:
Go to hxxps://getsession[.]org/
then add [Removed] to your contacts and send a message with this codename -- SOCOTRA
Although no actual malware samples are available, other possible Limpopo ransomware variants include Akgum, Aktakyr, Bulanyk, Formosa, Hatartam, Monjukly, Sakgar, Sazanda, and Windows ransomware.
While unverified, the tweet below claims that the Socotra ransomware exploits CVE-2024-22252 and CVE-2024-22253 (CVE-20204-22252 and CVE-20204-22253 may be a typo) that affect VMware ESXi, Workstation, and Fusion, which were patched in March 2024.
English translation:
In the case of cve 20204-22252, cve-20204-22253, be sure to patch it because it will destroy your Eid holiday.
Fortinet Protections
The Shinra and Limpopo ransomware described in this report are detected and blocked by FortiGuard Antivirus as:

W32/Filecoder.OOY!tr.ransom
W32/Filecoder.KFZGSOM!tr.ransom
W64/Filecoder.MK!tr.ransom
Linux/Filecoder_Babyk.R!tr
FortiGate, FortiMail, FortiClient, and FortiEDR support the FortiGuard AntiVirus service. The FortiGuard AntiVirus engine is part of each of those solutions. As a result, customers with up-to-date versions of these products installed are protected.
IOCs
Shinra Ransomware File IOCs

31eec61ed6866e0b4b3d6b26a3a7d65fed040df61062dd468a1f5be8cc709de7	Shinra ransomware
d60d4624425b2f58dd9e37c40046f776e0d78cb031488a12c435239dd0da40ef
941a95c85a4b37bff4571d49eb918a5094a032ac1416bded3a3cd3427ecf984c
399d586f033ec625a1f7524c86a1483808ff07e920f93e82e70cc5138feee72e
Limpopo Ransomware File IOCs

031971b9ccb57c1a7cf25bbd58533a6b1b1e760b2f080cb2be5e2522c0d90053	Limpopo ransomware
58ba94be5c2c7d740b6192fea1cc829756da955bb0f2fcf478ab8355bf33a31a
FortiGuard Labs Guidance
Due to the ease of disruption, damage to daily operations, potential impact on an organization’s reputation, and the unwanted destruction or release of personally identifiable information (PII), etc., it is vital to keep all AV and IPS signatures up to date.
Since the majority of ransomware is delivered via phishing, organizations should consider leveraging Fortinet solutions designed to train users to understand and detect phishing threats:
The FortiPhish Phishing Simulation Service uses real-world simulations to help organizations test user awareness and vigilance to phishing threats and to train and reinforce proper practices when users encounter targeted phishing attacks.
Our FREE Fortinet Certified Fundamentals (FCF) in Cybersecurity training. The training is designed to help end users learn about today's threat landscape and will introduce basic cybersecurity concepts and technology.
Organizations will need to make foundational changes to the frequency, location, and security of their data backups to effectively deal with the evolving and rapidly expanding risk of ransomware. When coupled with digital supply chain compromise and a workforce telecommuting into the network, there is a real risk that attacks can come from anywhere. Cloud-based security solutions, such as SASE, to protect off-network devices; advanced endpoint security, such as EDR (endpoint detection and response) solutions that can disrupt malware mid-attack; and Zero Trust Access and network segmentation strategies that restrict access to applications and resources based on policy and context, should all be investigated to minimize risk and to reduce the impact of a successful ransomware attack.
As part of the industry's leading fully integrated Security Fabric, delivering native synergy and automation across your security ecosystem, Fortinet also provides an extensive portfolio of technology and human-based as-a-service offerings. These services are powered by our global FortiGuard team of seasoned cybersecurity experts.
FortiRecon is a SaaS-based Digital Risk Prevention Service backed by cybersecurity experts that provides unrivaled threat intelligence on the latest threat actor activity across the dark web, providing a rich understanding of threat actors’ motivations and TTPs. The service can detect evidence of attacks in progress allowing customers to rapidly respond to and shut down active threats.
Best Practices Include Not Paying a Ransom
Organizations such as CISA, NCSC, the FBI, and HHS caution ransomware victims against paying a ransom partly because the payment does not guarantee that files will be recovered. According to a US Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) advisory, ransom payments may also embolden adversaries to target additional organizations, encourage other criminal actors to distribute ransomware, and/or fund illicit activities that could potentially be illegal. For organizations and individuals affected by ransomware, the FBI has a Ransomware Complaint page where victims can submit samples of ransomware activity via their Internet Crimes Complaint Center (IC3).
How Fortinet Can Help
FortiGuard Labs’ Emergency Incident Response Service provides rapid and effective response when an incident is detected. Our Incident Readiness Subscription Service provides tools and guidance to help you better prepare for a cyber incident through readiness assessments, IR playbook development, and IR playbook testing (tabletop exercises).
Additionally, FortiRecon Digital Risk Protection (DRP) is a SaaS-based service that provides a view of what adversaries are seeing, doing, and planning to help you counter attacks at the reconnaissance phase and significantly reduce the risk, time, and cost of later-stage threat mitigation.
Ransomware Roundup
Related Posts
FortiGuard Labs Threat Research
Ransomware Roundup - KageNoHitobito and DoNex
Ransomware Roundup – RA World
Ransomware Roundup: LockBit, BlueSky, and More







News & Articles

News Releases
News Articles
Security Research

Threat Research
FortiGuard Labs
Threat Map
Ransomware Prevention
Connect With Us

Fortinet Community
Partner Portal
Investor Relations
Product Certifications
Company

About Us
Exec Mgmt
Careers
Training
Events
Industry Awards
Social Responsibility
CyberGlossary
Sitemap
Blog Sitemap
Contact Us

(866) 868-3678
Copyright © 2025 Fortinet, Inc. All Rights Reserved