Categories



Fortinet News & Updates




FortiGuard Labs Threat Research




Industry Trends & Insights




Life at Fortinet




Partners




Customer Success Stories




PSIRT Blogs

Fortinet News & Updates
FortiGuard Labs Threat Research
Industry Trends & Insights
Life at Fortinet
Partners
Customer Success Stories
PSIRT Blogs
Fortinet News & Updates
FortiGuard Labs Threat Research
Industry Trends & Insights
Life at Fortinet
Partners
Customer Success Stories
PSIRT Blogs
CISO Collective
Subscribe
FortiGuard Labs Threat Research
Dissecting a Malicious Havoc Sample
A Follow-Up to “Intrusion into Middle East Critical National Infrastructure

Article Contents
Background
Remote Injector
Havoc Backdoor RAT
Register Demon on the C2 Server
Control Commands
Havoc Full Features
ConclusionFortinet Protections
IOCs:
Affected platforms: Microsoft Windows

Impacted parties: Windows Users

Impact: Fully remotely control the compromised computer

Severity level: High
Background
This analysis is a follow-up to the investigation titled ‘Intrusion into Middle East Critical National Infrastructure’ (full report here), led by the FortiGuard Incident Response Team (FGIR), which investigated a long-term cyber intrusion targeting critical national infrastructure (CNI) in the Middle East.
That report revealed that the attacker added several pieces of malware to the system’s Task Scheduler to maintain persistence. In this report, we conduct a detailed analysis of one of the malicious Havoc variant samples.
2025 Global Threat Landscape Report
Use this report to understand the latest attacker tactics, assess your exposure, and prioritize action before the next exploit hits your environment.
Havoc is a well-known post-exploitation command and control (C2) backdoor framework, primarily written in C++ and Go. We describe how this Havoc variant is decrypted from a DLL file and then deployed in a newly created “cmd.exe” process, how the Havoc demon communicates with its C2 server, and what malicious actions it can perform on the compromised Windows system.
Remote Injector
The remote injector (conhost.exe) is launched by the system Task Scheduler using the following command line.
C:\Windows\System32\drivers\conhost.exe -f conhost.dll -ER --ln --path cmd.exe
Since the release of Windows 7, Windows OS has included conhost.exe (Console Window Host) to handle the command-line interface. The attacker disguised the remote injector as conhost.exe to mislead the victim.
According to our analysis, the remote injector supports multiple features controlled by command-line parameters. The “conhost.dll” passed with the “-f” parameter contains the encrypted Havoc payload, and the “cmd.exe” specified by the “--path” parameter is the target process, into which Havoc will be injected and executed.
When the fake conhost.exe is executed without any parameters, it displays its help information (Figure 1), which explains how to use the remote injector and its available options.
Once the remote injector starts, it creates a “cmd.exe” process, specified by the “-- path” argument, by calling the API CreateProcessA(), as shown in Figure 2.
The remote injector then decrypts a Havoc payload, referred to as the Havoc agent or demon within the Havoc framework, using a piece of shellcode embedded in the conhost.dll file. Figure 3 shows the decryption function in the remote injector, a portion of the decrypted shellcode, and the decrypted Havoc payload in the memory at the bottom of the debugger. The decryption key and IV are generated from the first 30H bytes of the conhost.dll file.
Next, the remote injector calls two APIs, ZwAllocateVirtualMemory() and ZwWriteVirtualMemory(), using the ProcessHandle of the newly created “cmd.exe” process to inject the decrypted shellcode and Havoc executable into the process.
Finally, the remote injector creates a remote thread by calling the ZwCreateThreadEx() API. The ProcessHandle parameter is again set to the newly created “cmd.exe” process, and its lpStartAddress parameter points to the address of the injected shellcode within the process.
The purpose of shellcode is to deploy the subsequent Havoc payload (a DLL file) into the “cmd.exe” process and execute it.
Havoc Backdoor RAT
Havoc Framework is a typical RAT (Remote Access Trojan) and an open-source project available on GitHub. The Framework is written in multiple languages, including Golang, C, C++, Qt, Python, and Assembly (ASM). It was developed by C5pider and released in 2022.
In Havoc, the Command and Control (C2) server is referred to as teamserver, while its UI dashboard, used to interact with teamserver, is referred to as the client. The Havoc agent, also known as a demon, runs on the compromised device to receive commands from the C2 server, allowing it to control the system. Figure 4 shows the Havoc client on the server side, where a demon is actively being connected and controlled.
Havoc supports HTTP, HTTPS, and SMB protocols to transport commands and results between the C2 server and the compromised devices.
In this sample, the C2 server is hardcoded as “apps[.]gist[.]githubapp[.]net.” Unfortunately, the server was unavailable during our analysis. To proceed with our analysis, we set up a simulated Command and Control (C2) server. We modified the protocol from HTTPS to HTTP, allowing the traffic to be captured and analyzed in plaintext without TLS encryption.
Register Demon on the C2 Server
As long as the Havoc demon is running on the compromised device, it collects metadata about both the compromised Windows system and the Havoc process itself. This metadata is encrypted using the AES algorithm and then sent to the C2 server to register the compromised system on the C2 server. As shown at the bottom of Figure 5, the collected metadata includes various system and process details.
The metadata (size:0xBA) contains, but is not limited to, the following information: the agent ID (0x67C54600), Demon ID (0x0F), Host name, User name, Doman, IP address, process name (“C:\Windows\SYSTEM32\cmd.exe”), process ID (0x1ED4), parent PID (0x2444), the process’s load base address, OS version information, OS architecture, and more.
Figure 6 shows a demon-init packet containing the AES-encrypted metadata mentioned earlier. This packet must be sent as the first packet to the C2 server to register the victim’s system. We have divided the packet into color-coded sections and broken it down in the table below to explain the contents of each part.

+00h	The data size, 0xFA.
+04h	Magic value, 0xDEADBEEF.
+08h	Agent ID, 0x67C54600.
+0Ch	Command ID, 0x63. DEMON_INIT.
+10h	Request ID, 0x0.
+14h	AES Key, 20h bytes.
+34h	AES IV, 10h bytes.
+44h	The AES encrypted metadata.
The demon-init packet is sent as the body of an HTTP POST request. When the C2 server receives the packet, it verifies the magic value and decrypts the metadata using the AES key and AES IV included in the packet to complete the registration process. Meanwhile, the demon appears on the client dashboard with the compromised system metadata, just as illustrated in Figure 4.
Figure 7 shows a Wireshark screenshot capturing a demon-init packet sent via an HTTP Post request.
Control Commands
Havoc defines a wide range of control commands to control the compromised system, listed below:

COMMAND_GET_JOB(0x1)
COMMAND_INLINEEXECUTE_EXCEPTION(0x1)
COMMAND_INLINEEXECUTE_SYMBOL_NOT_FOUND(0x2)
COMMAND_INLINEEXECUTE_RAN_OK(0x3)
COMMAND_INLINEEXECUTE_COULD_NO_RUN(0x4)
COMMAND_INLINEEXECUTE(0x14)
COMMAND_NOJOB(0xA)
COMMAND_SLEEP(0xB)
COMMAND_PROC_LIST(0xC)
COMMAND_FS(0xF)
COMMAND_JOB(0x15)
COMMAND_INJECT_DLL(0x16)
COMMAND_INJECT_SHELLCODE(0x18)
COMMAND_SPAWNDLL(0x1A)
COMMAND_PROC_PPIDSPOOF(0x1B)
CALLBACK_OUTPUT(0x0)
CALLBACK_FILE(0x2)
CALLBACK_FILE_WRITE(0x8)
CALLBACK_FILE_CLOSE(0x9)
CALLBACK_ERROR(0xD)
CALLBACK_OUTPUT_OEM(0x1E)
CALLBACK_OUTPUT_UTF8(0x20)
DEMON_INIT(0x63)
DEMON_INFO(0x59)
BEACON_OUTPUT(0x5E)
COMMAND_TOKEN(0x28)
COMMAND_OUTPUT(0x5A)
COMMAND_ERROR(0x5B)
COMMAND_EXIT(0x5C)
COMMAND_KILL_DATE(0x5D)
COMMAND_CHECKIN(0x64)
COMMAND_EXCEPTION(0x98)
COMMAND_SYMBOL_NOT_FOUND(0x99)
COMMAND_NET(0x834)
COMMAND_CONFIG(0x9C4)
COMMAND_SCREENSHOT(0x9CE)
COMMAND_PIVOT(0x9D8)
COMMAND_TRANSFER(0x9E2)
COMMAND_SOCKET(0x9EC)
COMMAND_KERBEROS(0x9F6)
COMMAND_MEM_FILE(0xA00)
COMMAND_PACKAGE_DROPPED(0xA0A)
COMMAND_PROC(0x1010)
COMMAND_PS_IMPORT(0x1011)
COMMAND_ASSEMBLY_INLINE_EXECUTE(0x2001)
COMMAND_ASSEMBLY_LIST_VERSIONS(0x2003)
Most of the commands come with sub-commands to extend their capabilities.
For example, the COMMAND_FS(0xF) has 10 sub-commands:
DEMON_COMMAND_FS_DIR(1)
DEMON_COMMAND_FS_DOWNLOAD(2)
DEMON_COMMAND_FS_UPLOAD(3)
DEMON_COMMAND_FS_CD(4)
DEMON_COMMAND_FS_REMOVE(5)
DEMON_COMMAND_FS_MKDIR(6)
DEMON_COMMAND_FS_COPY(7)
DEMON_COMMAND_FS_MOVE(8)
DEMON_COMMAND_FS_GET_PWD(9)
DEMON_COMMAND_FS_CAT(10)
Suppose the attacker needs to create a folder named “test” on the compromised system. The packet shown in Figure 8 can be observed:
0x0F is the command ID for DEMON_COMMAND_FS, and 0xA18D02EC is the request ID. The following value indicates the size of the encrypted sub-command and parameters. Within the decrypted sub-command data, 0x06 is the ID for DEMON_COMMAND_FS_MKDIR, and the subsequent data represents the folder name (size + data).
In addition to the command and subcommand approach, Havoc also supports the in-memory execution of object files, commonly known as BOFs (Beacon Object Files). The C2 server sends a compiled Object File containing a piece of binary shellcode, which is executed directly in the memory of the demon process on the compromised system.
Using BOFs allows Havoc to extend its functionality without replacing or updating the demon itself.
Figure 8 shows a recently decrypted object file carried in a packet for the COMMAND_MEM_FILE command (command ID: 0xA00). The packet was sent when we typed “enum_filter_driver” in the client UI.
Havoc Full Features
In addition to the control commands, sub-commands, and BOFs introduced earlier, Havoc also implements a wide range of features. These features are categorized into two types: command and module, with each module containing multiple commands.
Once we type a command name or a module name followed by its command name, the C2 server generates a command packet with the corresponding command ID and sub-command ID or BOF, which is then sent to the demon to control the compromised system.
All the features of Havoc are listed in the table below.

adcs_enum	Command	Enumerate CAs and templates in the AD.
adcs_request	Command	Request an enrollment certificate.
adduser	Command	Add a new user to a machine.
addusertogroup	Command	Add a user to the specified group.
arp	Command	Lists out ARP table.
bofbelt	Command	A Seatbelt port using BOFs (Beacon Object Files).
cacls	Command	List user permissions for the specified file.
cat	Command	Display content of the specified file.
cd	Command	Change to a specified directory.
checkin	Command	Request a checkin request.
config	Module	Configure the behavior of the demon session.
cp	Command	Copy file.
dcenum	Command	Enumerate domain information.
dir	Command	List directory.
dll	Module	DLL spawn and injection modules.
domainenum	Command	Lists users accounts in the current domain.
dotnet	Module	Execute and manage dotnet assemblies.
download	Command	Downloads a specified file.
driversigs	Command	Checks drivers for known EDR vendor names.
enableuser	Command	Activates the specified user account.
enum_filter_driver	Command	Enumerate filter drivers.
enumlocalsessions	Command	Enumerate currently attached user sessions.
env	Command	Print environment variables.
exit	Command	Cleanup and exit.
get-asrep	Command	Enumerate a given domain for user accounts with ASREP.
get-delegation	Command	Enumerate a given domain for different types of abusable Kerberos Delegation settings.
get-netsession	Command	Enumerate sessions on the remote device.
get-spns	Command	Enumerate a given domain for user accounts with SPNs.
get_password_policy	Command	Gets a server's configured password policy.
help	Command	Shows help message of specified command.
inline-execute	Command	Executes an object file.
ipconfig	Command	Display network configuration settings .
job	Module	Job manager.
jump-exec	Module	Lateral movement module.
kerberoast	Command	Perform Kerberoasting against specified SPN.
klist	Command	List Kerberos tickets.
ldapsearch	Command	Execute LDAP searches.
listdns	Command	Obtains DNS cache entries.
locale	Command	Prints the locale information of the server.
luid	Command	Get current logon ID.
mkdir	Command	Create new directory.
mv	Command	Move a file or folder.
nanodump	Command	Dump the LSASS process.
nanodump_ppl_dump	Command	Bypass PPL and dump LSASS.
nanodump_ppl_medic	Command	Bypass PPL and dump LSASS.
nanodump_ssp	Command	Load a Security Support Provider (SSP) into LSASS.
net	Module	Network and host enumeration module.
netGroupList	Command	List groups.
netGroupListMembers	Command	List group members.
netLclGrpLstMmbrs	Command	List local group members.
netLocalGroupList	Command	List local group.
netshares	Command	List shared folders.
netsharesAdmin	Command	List details of the shared folders.
netstat	Command	List listening and connected network connections.
netuptime	Command	Obtains the boot time information.
netuser	Command	Get information about specific user.
netview	Command	Lists the workstations and servers.
noconsolation	Command	Execute a PE inline.
nslookup	Command	Make a DNS query on the compromised device .
pivot	Module	Pivoting module.
powerpick	Command	Executes unmanaged powershell commands.
powershell	Command	Executes powershell.exe commands.
proc	Module	Process enumeration and management.
ptt	Command	Import Kerberos ticket into a logon session.
purge	Command	Purge a Kerberos ticket.
pwd	Command	Get current directory.
quser	Command	Simple implementation of quser.exe.
reg_delete	Command	Deletes the registry key or value.
reg_query	Command	Query a registry value or enumerate a single key.
reg_query_recursive	Command	Recursively enumerate a key.
reg_save	Command	Saves the registry path and all subkeys to a file.
reg_set	Command	Creates or sets the specified key or value.
remove	Command	Remove file or directory.
resources	Command	List information of memory and disk drive.
routeprint	Command	Prints route information.
rportfwd	Module	Reverse port forwarding.
samdump	Command	Dumps the SAM, SECURITY and SYSTEM registries to files.
sc_create	Command	Creates a service on the target device.
sc_delete	Command	Deletes the specified service.
sc_description	Command	Sets the description of an existing service.
sc_enum	Command	Enumerate services.
sc_qc	Command	Queries a service with name in BOF (Beacon Object Files).
sc_qdescription	Command	Queries a services description
sc_qfailure	Command	Query a service for failure conditions.
sc_qtriggerinfo	Command	Query a service for trigger conditions.
sc_query	Command	Query services in BOF (Beacon Object Files).
sc_start	Command	Starts a specified service.
sc_stop	Command	Stops a specified service.
schtasksenum	Command	Enumerate scheduled tasks.
schtasksquery	Command	Query the given task in scheduled tasks.
screenshot	Command	Takes a screenshot.
sessions	Command	Get logon sessions.
setuserpass	Command	Sets the password to a specified user account.
shell	Command	Executes Windows commands in cmd.exe.
shellcode	Module	Shellcode injection techniques.
sleep	Command	Sets the delay to sleep.
socks	Module	Manages socks5 proxy.
task	Module	Task manager.
tasklist	Command	List running processes on the remote device.
tgtdeleg	Command	Retrieve a usable TGT for the current user.
token	Module	Token manipulation and impersonation.
transfer	Command	Download transfer module.
upload	Command	Uploads a file.
uptime	Command	Lists system boot time.
userenum	Command	Lists user accounts.
whoami	Command	Get the login user information in BOF (Beacon Object Files).
windowlist	Command	List visible windows, like program windows’ title.
wmi_query	Command	Run a wmi query and display results in CSV format.
Here is how a control command is packaged into a packet. Acting as an attacker, we entered the “pwd” command inside the Havoc C2 server and sent it to the demon, which then displayed the command result on our screen.
Typically, once the demon has connected to the C2 server, it sends a heartbeat packet to the C2 server approximately every 3 seconds (a random number) to notify the C2 server that the demon is still alive. The heartbeat packet structure is shown in Figure 10.
Figure 10 also shows the command packet for the “pwd” command generated by the C2 server at the bottom. The control command data is sent within the response to the heartbeat packet.
The command packet begins with a command ID (0x0F for COMMAND_FS), followed by a request ID (0xc5312b04), the size of the encrypted data, and then the encrypted data itself. The encrypted data, “51 7c 66 9c,” decrypts to “00 00 00 09,” which is the sub-command ID 0x9 (for DEMON_COMMAND_FS_GET_PWD) under the command ID 0x0F (COMMAND_FS).
Conclusion
This analysis provides a detailed examination of a Havoc variant involved in a long-term cyber intrusion targeting critical national infrastructure in the Middle East. It demonstrates how this remote injector leverages a disguised conhost.exe process to deploy the Havoc payload into a newly created cmd.exe process.
The Havoc framework’s modular design, supporting commands, sub-commands, and in-memory execution of Beacon Object Files (BOFs), offers attackers a flexible method to control the remote demon process.
Overall, understanding the packet structures, encryption mechanisms, and command execution workflows will help researchers detect and analyze this sophisticated RAT framework.
Fortinet Protections
Fortinet customers are already protected from this malware with AntiVirus service, FortiGuard’s Anti-Botnet service, FortiGuard’s AntiSPAM service, and FortiGuard’s Web Filtering service as follows:
The FortiGuard’s Anti-Botnet service blocks the DNS requests for the C2 server domain.
The domain to the C2 server is rated as “Malicious Websites” by the FortiGuard Web Filtering service.
FortiGuard Antivirus service detects the remote injector and the encrypted Havoc DLL file with the following AV signatures.
W64/Havoc.d16b!tr

 Data/Havoc.e5b0!tr
FortiGuard IPS service detects Havoc traffic with the signature “Backdoor.Havoc.Agent”.
FortiGate, FortiMail, FortiClient, and FortiEDR support the FortiGuard AntiVirus service. The FortiGuard AntiVirus engine is part of each solution. As a result, customers who have these products with up-to-date protections are already protected.
We also suggest that our readers go through the free NSE training: NSE 1 – Information Security Awareness, a module on Internet threats designed to help end-users learn how to identify and protect themselves from phishing attacks.
If you believe this or any other cybersecurity threat has impacted your organization, please contact our Global FortiGuard Incident Response Team.
IOCs:
C2 server:
apps[.]gist[.]githubapp[.]net
Relevant Sample SHA-256:
[conhost.exe / the remote injector]

22BD09FBAB54963D4B0234585D33571A47A2DF569DBAB8B40988415AB0A3C37B

[conhost.dll / encrypted Havoc sample with shellcode]

9208034AF160357C99B45564FF54570B1510BAF3BC033999AE4281482617FF5B
Related Posts
FortiGuard Labs Threat Research
FortiGuard Incident Response Team Detects Intrusion into Middle East Critical National Infrastructure
Deep Dive into a Dumped Malware without a PE Header
Infostealer Malware FormBook Spread via Phishing Campaign – Part I







News & Articles

News Releases
News Articles
Security Research

Threat Research
FortiGuard Labs
Threat Map
Ransomware Prevention
Connect With Us

Fortinet Community
Partner Portal
Investor Relations
Product Certifications
Company

About Us
Exec Mgmt
Careers
Training
Events
Industry Awards
Social Responsibility
CyberGlossary
Sitemap
Blog Sitemap
Contact Us

(866) 868-3678
Copyright © 2025 Fortinet, Inc. All Rights Reserved