Categories



Fortinet News & Updates




FortiGuard Labs Threat Research




Industry Trends & Insights




Life at Fortinet




Partners




Customer Success Stories




PSIRT Blogs

Fortinet News & Updates
FortiGuard Labs Threat Research
Industry Trends & Insights
Life at Fortinet
Partners
Customer Success Stories
PSIRT Blogs
Fortinet News & Updates
FortiGuard Labs Threat Research
Industry Trends & Insights
Life at Fortinet
Partners
Customer Success Stories
PSIRT Blogs
CISO Collective
Subscribe
FortiGuard Labs Threat Research
DCRAT Impersonating the Colombian Government
Multi-layered obfuscation used to deploy remote access trojan
Affected Platforms: Microsoft Windows

Impacted Users: Microsoft Windows

Impact: Control and collect victim’s sensitive information from the victim’s device

Prevalence: Columbia targeted

Severity Level: High
The FortiMail IR team recently uncovered a new email attack distributing a Remote Access Trojan called DCRAT. The threat actor is impersonating a Colombian government entity to target organizations in Colombia. The threat actor uses multiple techniques, such as a password protected archive, obfuscation, steganography, base64 encoding, and multiple file drops, to evade detection.
2025 Global Threat Landscape Report
Use this report to understand the latest attacker tactics, assess your exposure, and prioritize action before the next exploit hits your environment.
Key features of DCRAT:
1. Modular Architecture

DCRAT is designed with a modular structure, allowing attackers to add or remove plugins. This lets them tailor the RAT’s behavior to specific tasks like data theft, surveillance, or persistence.
2. Comprehensive Surveillance Capabilities

The RAT allows remote control over infected systems. Attackers can execute commands, manage files, monitor user activity, and even download or run additional malicious payloads.
3. Information Theft

It can steal sensitive information such as credentials, documents, browser data, and personal files. It also supports screenshot capture and keylogging to record user input.
4. System Manipulation

DCRAT can alter system settings — rebooting, shutting down, logging off users, or creating new accounts. It can also change visual elements like wallpapers and taskbar visibility.
5. File and Process Management

The malware supports creating, deleting, renaming, or moving files and folders. It can run or terminate processes and upload/download files to or from the victim’s system.
6. Browser and Credential Harvesting

It specifically targets browsers to extract stored data such as cookies, browsing history, and saved login credentials. It can also open websites and perform actions in the user’s browser.
The threat actor sends an email impersonating a Colombian government entity to trick the user to run the attachment contents while having the recipient in the BCC field:
The ZIP attachment contains a bat file which will drop an obfuscated vbs file from a pastebin like website to C:\Windows\Temp:
The vbs file is heavily obfuscated and is made to trick analysts and systems:
After removing the junk and the obfuscation, we found the following, which eventually runs the base64 variable:
The base64 code in the first variable contained another script:
Cleaning the above script reveals the following:
This script sets a reversed URL as a variable and points it to an image which contains data hidden with base64. Unfortunately, the URL can’t be reversed and the image payload is no longer available. But due to the presence of the URL, which contains an exe file in base64 and the contents of the code itself, it is safe to assume it would extract the image data and invoke a .NET library to download the third and final payload from the reversed URL to C:\Users\Public\Downloads:
The base64 string in the reversed URL contains the RAT exe file.
Looking at the main function, we see multiple calls:
It starts with a small delay, and then goes into InitializeSettings, which will decrypt settings encrypted with AES256.
The AES256 key is hardcoded and is in base 64:
Variables revealed after the decryption:
Ports – 8848

Hosts - 176.]65.]144.]19

Version – 1.0.7

Install – false

MTX – DcRatMutex_qwqdanchun

Pastebin – null

Anti – false

Anti_Process – false

BS_OD – false

Group – AU

HWID – This takes the properties of the machine, concatenates them, converts that into an MD5 hash, and then converts that hash into a hexadecimal string. It then takes the first 20 characters and converts them into upper case.
Server signature –

Server certificate -

After initializing those settings, it runs VerifyHash, which checks if the signature is valid for that hash and public key.
Following the main function, if Anti had been TRUE, it would run the following anti analysis function:
This runs a query that selects everything from Win32_CacheMemory and iterates through each one. Win32_CacheMemory provides info about cache memory devices. If there are none, it could indicate the presence of a VM.
Following the next call, it creates a mutex with the mutex name previously decrypted and saved into MTX. (DcRatMutex_qwqdanchun)
If the Anti Process were true, it would run a code that would constantly check for the processes mentioned in it and terminate them if detected:
After the next call, if BS_OD (i.e., Blue Screen of Death) was set to true and the user had administrative privileges, the code would attempt to mark the malware process as a critical system process using RtlSetProcessIsCritical. Terminating such a process would trigger a blue screen of death.
Following the next call, if In_stall were true, it would run through a few blocks of code under Install().
This code block uses FileInfo to retrieve properties of the Install_Folder variable, which in this case points to the AppData\Roaming directory. It then obtains the full file path of the currently running malware and compares it to the Install_Folder path. If the paths do not match, it iterates through all running processes and terminates any that are executing from the Install_Folder location.
If the user has administrative privileges, the malware spawns a hidden cmd process to execute a base64-decoded command string:
/c schtasks /create /f /sc onlogon /rl highest /tn
It then appends parameters to register the malware binary as a scheduled task for persistence. The final command executed is:
/c schtasks /create /f /sc onlogon /rl highest /tn "TASK NAME" /tr "\"FULL PATH OF THE EXECUTABLE\"" & exit
If the user lacks administrative privileges, the malware instead creates a registry entry under:
HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\
The entry uses the malware’s filename and path to ensure it is executed at user logon.
After completing the previous steps, the malware checks whether the file still exists at the path specified by FullName (i.e., the full path of the currently running executable) and pauses execution for one second. It then creates a new file in the AppData\Roaming directory and copies the current executable into that location.
Next, it generates a .bat file in the AppData\Local\Temp directory containing a script designed to execute the dropped file and then delete itself. The contents of the batch file are as follows:
@echo off

timeout 3 > NUL

START "" "DROPPED FILE LOCATION"

CD xxx\AppData\Local\Temp\

DEL "BAT FILE NAME" /he flags:
This function instructs Windows to keep the display on and prevent the system from entering sleep mode, maintaining this state continuously until explicitly reset.
It uses the value 2147483651U, which corresponds to 0x80000003 in hexadecimal. According to Microsoft’s documentation for SetThreadExecutionState (a function imported from kernel32.dll), this value is a combination of the following flags:
Combined, these flags ensure that the system remains active and the screen remains on without interruption.
The RAT then checks to see if the user is an admin. If so, it runs the CleanSetting function:
This function performs the following:

Deletes the windir key if it exists under HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Environment - the value for this key points to the root of the Windows directory.
Deletes the mscfile subkey under HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Classes which controls the file association for .msc files (for example services.msc) and deleting this prevents users from opening critical administrative tools.
Deletes the ms-settings subkey under HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Classes which is a URI protocol used to open the Windows Settings app from links.

Removing this can break links to Settings (for example: ms-settings:sound from the Run window)
The RAT then calls for the Amsi.Bypass function
The function receives two base64-encoded strings and determines whether the current process is running in 32-bit or 64-bit mode. It then passes this architecture-specific value as a byte to the PatchA function.
Inside PatchA, the function decodes two base64 strings: "amsi.dll" and "AmsiScanBuffer". AmsiScanBuffer is a function provided by the Windows Antimalware Scan Interface (AMSI), available in Windows 10 and later. AMSI allows applications to pass memory buffers to the system’s antivirus engine for scanning.
The function proceeds to load amsi.dll into memory and retrieves the address of the AmsiScanBuffer function. It then attempts to inject a patch into this memory location, with the goal of sabotaging or disabling AMSI’s ability to detect malicious code.
Finally, the RAT enters an infinite loop, continuously attempting to connect to its command-and-control (C2) server. In this case, the C2 address was hardcoded, as noted earlier. However, the RAT also supports retrieving the C2 address dynamically from a remote URL stored in the Paste_bin variable.
Summary
The attacker sends a phishing email impersonating a Colombian government agency to deceive the user into executing a malicious file. To evade detection, the attack chain employs multiple obfuscation techniques, including steganography and multi-stage payloads.
When the file is run, it downloads an obfuscated VBS script from a text-sharing site. This script, in turn, executes obfuscated PowerShell code that retrieves a second link from another sharing site. It then extracts and invokes a .NET library embedded within an image file using steganography to deliver and execute the final payload.
The impact of such an attack is severe: giving a threat actor direct access to a victim’s machine can result in the theft of sensitive data, system compromise, and significant operational or financial damage.
Fortinet Protections
FortiMail dynamically detects the email, the BAT file, and the VBS file as malware. FortMail also detects the files statically based on the system’s advanced threat engines and previous threat intelligence research.
The malware described in this report is detected and blocked by FortiGuard Antivirus as:
MSIL/Agent.CFQ!tr
FortiGate, FortiMail, FortiClient, and FortiEDR support the FortiGuard AntiVirus service. The FortiGuard AntiVirus engine is part of each of these solutions. As a result, customers who have these products with up-to-date protections are protected.
The FortiGuard CDR (Content Disarm and Reconstruction) service, which runs on both FortiGate and FortiMail, can disarm the malicious macros in the document.
We also suggest that organizations go through Fortinet’s free NSE training module: FCF Fortinet Certified Fundamentals. This module is designed to help end users learn how to identify and protect themselves from phishing attacks.
FortiGuard IP Reputation and Anti-Botnet Security Service proactively block these attacks by aggregating malicious source IP data from the Fortinet distributed network of threat sensors, CERTs, MITRE, cooperative competitors, and other global sources that collaborate to provide up-to-date threat intelligence about hostile sources.
If you believe this or any other cybersecurity threat has impacted your organization, please contact our Global FortiGuard Incident Response Team.
IOCs
URLs:
hxxp[:]//paste[.]ee/d/jYHEqBJ3/0

 hxxps[:]//paste[.]ee/d/oAqRiS3g

 hxxps[:]//ia601205[.]us[.]archive[.]org/26/items/new_image_20250430/new_image[.]jpg
Relevant SHA-256:
ZIP:

db21cc64fb7a7ed9075c96600b7e7e7007a0df7cb837189c6551010a6f828590



BAT:

34b8040d3dad4bd9f34738fbc3363fcda819ac479db8497fb857865cee77ad89



VBS:

b0f3c7ea17875b5e1545678b3878ce268ff4bde718b66254ce01b0bb864801b8



EXE:

77a22e30e4cc900379fd4b04c707d2dfd174858c8e1ee3f1cbecd4ece1fab3fe



C2:

176[.]65[.]144[.]19[:]8848
Related Posts
FortiGuard Labs Threat Research
A Look into XPC Internals: Reverse Engineering the XPC Objects
Locky Strikes Another Blow, Diablo6 Variant Starts Spreading Through Spam
Fake Indian Income Tax Calculator Delivers xRAT Variant







News & Articles

News Releases
News Articles
Security Research

Threat Research
FortiGuard Labs
Threat Map
Ransomware Prevention
Connect With Us

Fortinet Community
Partner Portal
Investor Relations
Product Certifications
Company

About Us
Exec Mgmt
Careers
Training
Events
Industry Awards
Social Responsibility
CyberGlossary
Sitemap
Blog Sitemap
Contact Us

(866) 868-3678
Copyright © 2025 Fortinet, Inc. All Rights Reserved