Fresh Wave of Malicious npm Packages Threaten Kubernetes Configs and SSH Keys #1 Trusted Cybersecurity News Platform Followed by 4.50+ million       Get the Free Newsletter  Home  Newsletter  Webinars Home Data Breaches Cyber Attacks Vulnerabilities Webinars Store Contact    Resources Webinars THN Store Free eBooks About Site About THN Jobs Advertise with us Contact/Tip Us  Reach out to get featured—contact us to send your exclusive story idea, research, hacks, or ask us a question or leave a comment/feedback! Follow Us On Social Media       RSS Feeds  Email Alerts  Telegram Channel Fresh Wave of Malicious npm Packages Threaten Kubernetes Configs and SSH Keys  Sep 20, 2023  Newsroom Kubernetes / Supply Chain Attack Cybersecurity researchers have discovered a fresh batch of malicious packages in the npm package registry that are designed to exfiltrate Kubernetes configurations and SSH keys from compromised machines to a remote server. Sonatype said it has discovered 14 different npm packages so far: @am-fe/hooks, @am-fe/provider, @am-fe/request, @am-fe/utils, @am-fe/watermark, @am-fe/watermark-core, @dynamic-form-components/mui, @dynamic-form-components/shineout, @expue/app, @fixedwidthtable/fixedwidthtable, @soc-fe/use, @spgy/eslint-plugin-spgy-fe, @virtualsearchtable/virtualsearchtable, and shineouts. "These packages [...] attempt to impersonate JavaScript libraries and components, such as ESLint plugins and TypeScript SDK tools," the software supply chain security firm said . "But, upon installation, multiple versions of the packages were seen running obfuscated code to collect and siphon sensitive files from the target machine." Along with Kubernetes config and SSH keys, the modules are also capable of harvesting system metadata such as username, IP address, and hostname, all of which are transmitted to a domain named app.threatest[.]com. The disclosure comes a little over a week after Sonatype detected counterfeit npm packages that exploit a technique known as dependency confusion to impersonate internal packages purportedly used by PayPal Zettle and Airbnb developers as part of an ethical research experiment. That said, threat actors continue to target open-source registries like npm and PyPI with cryptojackers, infostealers, and other novel malware to compromise developer systems and ultimately poison the software supply chain. In one instance highlighted by Phylum earlier this month, an npm module named hardhat-gas-report remained benign for more than eight months since January 6, 2023, before receiving two back-to-back updates on September 1, 2023, to include malicious JavaScript capable of exfiltrating Ethereum private keys copied to the clipboard to a remote server. "This targeted approach indicates a sophisticated understanding of cryptocurrency security and suggests that the attacker is aiming to capture and exfiltrate sensitive cryptographic keys for unauthorized access to Ethereum wallets or other secured digital assets," the company said . Another case of an attempted supply chain attack involved a crafty npm package called gcc-patch that was found to masquerade as a bespoke GCC compiler but actually harbored a cryptocurrency miner that "covertly taps into the computational power of innocent developers, aiming to profit at their expense." But in a sign that such threats are becoming far too frequent, a similar cryptojacking campaign targeting PyPI leveraged a fraudulent Python package called culturestreak to hijack system resources and mine the Dero cryptocurrency by downloading a payload from a GitLab repository, according to Checkmarx. What's more, such campaigns have diversified to span the Javascript (npm), Python (PyPI) and Ruby (RubyGems) ecosystems, what with threat actors uploading several packages with data collection and exfiltration capabilities and following it up by publishing new versions carrying malicious payloads. The campaign specifically targets Apple macOS users, indicating that malware in open-source package repositories is not only becoming increasingly prevalent, but are also singling out other operating systems beyond Windows. "The author of these packages is staging a broad campaign against software developers," Phylum noted in an analysis. "The end goal of this campaign remains unclear." Found this article interesting? Follow us on Twitter  and LinkedIn to read more exclusive content we post. SHARE      Tweet  Share  Share  Share   Share on Facebook  Share on Twitter  Share on Linkedin  Share on Reddit  Share on Hacker News  Share on Email  Share on WhatsApp Share on Facebook Messenger  Share on Telegram SHARE  cybersecurity , Kubernetes , npm package , Supply Chain Security Join 120,000+ Professionals Sign up for free and start receiving your daily dose of cybersecurity news, insights and tips. Email Cybersecurity Webinars Master Application Detection and Response Learn Insider Threat Defense Techniques Discover how application detection, response, and automated behavior modeling can revolutionize your defense against insider threats. Register Think Like a Hacker, Defend Like a Pro Psychology of Social Engineering Ever wondered why social engineering works so well? Let's decode the mind of a cyber attacker. Register Breaking News Cybersecurity Resources 600+ Experts Reveal Key SaaS Security Gaps SaaS Gaps You Don't Know Can Hurt You – Learn More in the AppOmni 2023 Report. Discover Our Unparalleled Threat Detection Capabilities Try Fidelis Elevate for 30 days and discover threats your current provider missed. Webinar: A New Approach to Mitigating Insider Risks Learn how you can easily mitigate the modern security risks introduced by your employees. Earn a Master's in Cybersecurity Risk Management Lead the future of cybersecurity risk management with an online Master's from Georgetown. Connect with us!  905,000 Followers  1,950,000 Followers  500,000 Followers  22,000 Subscribers  148,000 Followers  120,000 Subscribers Company About THN Advertise with us Contact Pages Webinars Deals Store Privacy Policy Deals Hacking Development Android  RSS Feeds  Contact Us © The Hacker News, 2023. All Rights Reserved.