Malicious PyPI packages hijack dev devices to mine cryptocurrency News Featured Latest Staples confirms cyberattack behind service outages, delivery issues Black Basta ransomware made over $100 million from extortion Japanese Space Agency JAXA hacked in summer cyberattack Cactus ransomware exploiting Qlik Sense flaws to breach networks Over 20,000 vulnerable Microsoft Exchange servers exposed to attacks Google Chrome's new cache change could boost performance US Health Dept urges hospitals to patch critical Citrix Bleed bug Save $155 on this CompTIA certification exam prep super bundle Downloads Latest Most Downloaded Qualys BrowserCheck STOPDecrypter AuroraDecrypter FilesLockerDecrypter AdwCleaner ComboFix RKill Junkware Removal Tool VPNs Popular Best VPNs How to change IP address Access the dark web safely Best VPN for YouTube Virus Removal Guides Latest Most Viewed Ransomware Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide) How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions) How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ Tutorials Latest Popular How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11 How to use the Windows Registry Editor How to backup and restore the Windows Registry How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator How to start Windows in Safe Mode How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware How to show hidden files in Windows 7 How to see hidden files in Windows Deals Categories eLearning IT Certification Courses Gear + Gadgets Security Forums More Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Chat on Discord Send us a Tip! Welcome Guide Home News Security Malicious PyPI packages hijack dev devices to mine cryptocurrency Malicious PyPI packages hijack dev devices to mine cryptocurrency By Ionut Ilascu June 22, 2021 03:49 AM 0 This week, multiple malicious packages were caught in the PyPI repository for Python projects that turned developers' workstations into cryptomining machines. All malicious packages were published by the same account and tricked developers into downloading them thousands of times by using misspelled names of legitimate Python projects. Bash script pulls in miner A total of six packages containing malicious code infiltrated the Python Package Index (PyPI) in April: maratlib maratlib1 matplatlib-plus mllearnlib mplatlib learninglib All came from user “nedog123” and the names of most of them are misspelled versions of the matplotlib legitimate plotting software. Ax Sharma, a security researcher at devops automation company Sonatype, analyzed the “maratlib” package in a blog post , noting that it was used as a dependency by the other malicious components. “For each of these packages, the malicious code is contained in the setup.py file which is a build script that runs during a package’s installation,” the researcher writes. While analyzing the package, Sharma found that it attempted to download a Bash script (aza2.sh) from a GitHub repository that is no longer available. Sharma tracked the author’s aliases on GitHub using open-source intelligence and found that the script’s role was to run a cryptominer called “Ubqminer” on the compromised machine. The researcher also notes that the malware author replaced the default Kryptex wallet address with their own to mine for Ubiq cryptocurrency (UBQ). In another variant, the script included a different cryptomining program that uses GPU power, the open-source T-Rex . Attackers are constantly targeting open-source code repositories like PyPI [ 1 , 2 , 3], the NPM for NodeJS [ 1 , 2 , 3 ], or RubyGems . Even if the detection comes when the download count is low, as it typically happens, there is a significant risk as developers may integrate the malicious code in widely used projects. In this case, the six malicious packages were caught by Sonatype after scanning the PyPI repo with its automated malware detection system, Release Integrity. At detection time, the packages had accumulated almost 5,000 downloads since April, with “maratlib” recording the highest download count, 2,371. Related Articles: This Black Friday, learn Python with $95 off this training bundle UK and South Korea: Hackers use zero-day in supply-chain attack Hackers breach healthcare orgs via ScreenConnect remote access Lazarus hackers breached dev repeatedly to deploy SIGNBT malware StripedFly malware framework infects 1 million Windows, Linux hosts CryptoMiner PyPI Python Repository Supply Chain Ionut Ilascu Ionut Ilascu is a technology writer with a focus on all things cybersecurity. The topics he writes about include malware, vulnerabilities, exploits and security defenses, as well as research and innovation in information security. His work has been published by Bitdefender, Netgear, The Security Ledger and Softpedia. Previous Article Next Article Post a Comment Community Rules You need to login in order to post a comment Not a member yet? Register Now You may also like: Popular Stories Over 20,000 vulnerable Microsoft Exchange servers exposed to attacks Hackers use new Agent Raccoon malware to backdoor US targets Follow us: Main Sections News VPN Buyer Guides Downloads Virus Removal Guides Tutorials Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Community Forums Forum Rules Chat Useful Resources Welcome Guide Sitemap Company About BleepingComputer Contact Us Send us a Tip! Advertising Write for BleepingComputer Social & Feeds Changelog Terms of Use - Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure Copyright @ 2003 - 2023 Bleeping Computer ® LLC - All Rights Reserved Login Username Password Remember Me Sign in anonymously Sign in with Twitter Not a member yet? Register Now Reporter Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment? Spam Abusive or Harmful Inappropriate content Strong language Other Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited. Submitting... SUBMIT