GitHub - DataDog/malicious-software-packages-dataset: An open-source dataset of malicious software packages found in the wild, 100% vetted by humans. Skip to content Toggle navigation Sign up Product Actions Automate any workflow Packages Host and manage packages Security Find and fix vulnerabilities Codespaces Instant dev environments Copilot Write better code with AI Code review Manage code changes Issues Plan and track work Discussions Collaborate outside of code Explore All features Documentation GitHub Skills Blog Solutions For Enterprise Teams Startups Education By Solution CI/CD & Automation DevOps DevSecOps Resources Learning Pathways White papers, Ebooks, Webinars Customer Stories Partners Open Source GitHub Sponsors Fund open source developers The ReadME Project GitHub community articles Repositories Topics Trending Collections Pricing Search or jump to... Search code, repositories, users, issues, pull requests... Search Clear Search syntax tips Provide feedback We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously. Include my email address so I can be contacted Cancel Submit feedback Saved searches Use saved searches to filter your results more quickly Name Query To see all available qualifiers, see our documentation . Cancel Create saved search Sign in Sign up You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. Dismiss alert DataDog / malicious-software-packages-dataset Public Notifications Fork 10 Star 87 An open-source dataset of malicious software packages found in the wild, 100% vetted by humans. License Apache-2.0 license 87 stars 10 forks Activity Star Notifications Code Issues 0 Pull requests 0 Actions Security Insights Additional navigation options Code Issues Pull requests Actions Security Insights DataDog/malicious-software-packages-dataset This commit does not belong to any branch on this repository, and may belong to a fork outside of the repository. main Switch branches/tags Branches Tags View all branches View all tags Name already in use A tag already exists with the provided branch name. Many Git commands accept both tag and branch names, so creating this branch may cause unexpected behavior. Are you sure you want to create this branch? Cancel Create 2 branches 0 tags Code Local Codespaces Clone HTTPS GitHub CLI Use Git or checkout with SVN using the web URL. Work fast with our official CLI. Learn more about the CLI . Open with GitHub Desktop Download ZIP Sign In Required Please sign in to use Codespaces. Launching GitHub Desktop If nothing happens, download GitHub Desktop and try again. Launching GitHub Desktop If nothing happens, download GitHub Desktop and try again. Launching Xcode If nothing happens, download Xcode and try again. Launching Visual Studio Code Your codespace will open once ready. There was a problem preparing your codespace, please try again. Latest commit Git stats 31 commits Files Permalink Failed to load latest commit information. Type Name Latest commit message Commit time samples/ pypi scripts .pre-commit-config.yaml LICENSE NOTICE README.md image.png View code Malicious Software Packages Dataset Usage License Disclaimers FAQ Are you maintaining this dataset? How do you know these packages are malicious? How are you clustering these packages? Do you accept contributions? Other datasets README.md Malicious Software Packages Dataset This repository is an open-source dataset of 1397 malicious software packages (and counting) identified by Datadog, as part of our security research efforts in software supply-chain
security. Most of the malicious packages have been identified by GuardDog . Current ecosystems: PyPI Usage Malicious samples are available under the samples/ folder and compressed as an encrypted ZIP file with the password infected . The date indicated as part of the file name is the
discovery date, not necessarily the package publication date. You can use the script extract.sh to automatically extract all the samples to perform local analysis on them. Alternatively, you can extract a single sample using: $ unzip -o -P infected samples/pypi/2023-03-20-pydefender-v1.0.0.zip -d /tmp/
Archive:  samples/pypi/2023-03-20-pydefender-v1.0.0.zip
   creating: /tmp/2023-03-20-pydefender-v1.0.0/ License This dataset is released under the Apache-2.0 license. You're welcome to use it with attribution. You can cite it using: @misc{OpenSourceDatasetMaliciousSoftwarePackages, 
    month     = Mar,
    day       = 20,
    date      = 2023,
    journal   = {Open-Source Dataset of Malicious Software Packages},
    publisher = {Datadog Security Labs},
    url       = https://github.com/datadog/malicious-software-packages-dataset, 
} Malicious software packages provided as part of this repository may contain legitimate, licensed code. In that case, the applicable license is the one of the original package, indicated in the metadata of its setup.py file. Disclaimers This repository contains actively malicious software that was published by threat actors. Do not run it on your machine. This dataset may suffer from selection biais, as it was mostly identified by a single ruleset ( GuardDog ). As such, it may not accurately represent the landscape of software
supply-chain security malware. Some of the packages in this dataset are very similar. As of March 20st 2023, we estimate that the dataset contains around 50 clusters of highly similar packages. One of the clusters is very
large (more than 500 packages highly similar to this one ), which might skew the dataset. FAQ Are you maintaining this dataset? We will be regularly adding new packages to the dataset. How do you know these packages are malicious? Every single software package included in this dataset has been manually triaged by a human. How are you clustering these packages? At the time, we did not make available the clustering algorithm we use internally to group similar samples and ease analysis. If you have interest, please reach out at securitylabs@datadoghq.com -
we'll be happy to talk! Do you accept contributions? At the time, the repository is not accepting contributions. However, if you'd like to share an interesting finding with us, reach out at securitylabs@datadoghq.com ! Other datasets https://github.com/lxyeternal/pypi_malregistry and related paper https://lcwj3.github.io/img_cs/pdf/An%20Empirical%20Study%20of%20Malicious%20Code%20In%20PyPI%20Ecosystem.pdf https://github.com/cybertier/Backstabbers-Knife-Collection About An open-source dataset of malicious software packages found in the wild, 100% vetted by humans. Topics dataset malicious-packages software-supply-chain-security guarddog Resources Readme License Apache-2.0 license Activity Stars 87 stars Watchers 6 watching Forks 10 forks Report repository Contributors 3 Languages Python 100.0% Footer © 2023 GitHub, Inc. Footer navigation Terms Privacy Security Status Docs Contact You can’t perform that action at this time.