PyPI packages hijacked after developers fall for phishing emails News Featured Latest Staples confirms cyberattack behind service outages, delivery issues Black Basta ransomware made over $100 million from extortion Japanese Space Agency JAXA hacked in summer cyberattack Cactus ransomware exploiting Qlik Sense flaws to breach networks Over 20,000 vulnerable Microsoft Exchange servers exposed to attacks Google Chrome's new cache change could boost performance US Health Dept urges hospitals to patch critical Citrix Bleed bug Save $155 on this CompTIA certification exam prep super bundle Downloads Latest Most Downloaded Qualys BrowserCheck STOPDecrypter AuroraDecrypter FilesLockerDecrypter AdwCleaner ComboFix RKill Junkware Removal Tool VPNs Popular Best VPNs How to change IP address Access the dark web safely Best VPN for YouTube Virus Removal Guides Latest Most Viewed Ransomware Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide) How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions) How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ Tutorials Latest Popular How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11 How to use the Windows Registry Editor How to backup and restore the Windows Registry How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator How to start Windows in Safe Mode How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware How to show hidden files in Windows 7 How to see hidden files in Windows Deals Categories eLearning IT Certification Courses Gear + Gadgets Security Forums More Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Chat on Discord Send us a Tip! Welcome Guide Home News Security PyPI packages hijacked after developers fall for phishing emails PyPI packages hijacked after developers fall for phishing emails By Ax Sharma August 25, 2022 07:18 AM 0 A phishing campaign caught yesterday was seen targeting maintainers of Python packages published to the PyPI registry. Python packages 'exotel' and 'spam' are among hundreds seen laced with malware after attackers successfully compromised accounts of maintainers who fell for the phishing email. Phishing campaign targets PyPI maintainers Admins of the PyPI registry confirmed yesterday a phishing email campaign had actively been targeting PyPI maintainers after Django project board member Adam Johnson reported receiving a suspicious email. The email urges developers, who have their packages published to PyPI, to undergo a mandatory "validation" process or risk getting their packages purged from the PyPI registry: Background: the phishing message claims that there is a mandatory ‘validation’ process being implemented, and invites users to follow a link to validate a package, or otherwise risk the package being removed from PyPI. pic.twitter.com/r0JOgT98Yg — Python Package Index (@pypi) August 24, 2022 "The phishing site looks fairly convincing," explained Johnson. "But as it's on Google Sites, there's a floating 'info' button at the bottom left. Clicking this allows you to report the site as a phishing attack, which I've done." PyPI identifies compromised packages Unfortunately, some developers did fall for the phishing emails and entered their credentials on the attacker's webpage, leading to their creations getting hijacked and laced with malware. Among the list of hijacked versions of packages are, 'spam' (versions 2.0.2 and 4.0.2) and 'exotel' (version 0.1.6). These versions were taken down from PyPI yesterday, as confirmed by BleepingComputer. PyPI admins further reassured that they had identified and removed "several hundred typosquats" that match the pattern. The malicious code inserted in the hijacked versions exfiltrated the user's computer name to domain linkedopports[.]com and further downloaded and launched a trojan that BleepingComputer saw making requests to the same illicit domain. The malicious releases follow a similar pattern, again using linkedopports[dot]com. At this time, the malicious releases that we are aware of are: - exotel==0.1.6 - spam==2.0.2 and ==4.0.2 We’ve additionally taken down several hundred typosquats that fit the same pattern. pic.twitter.com/MjvhWGNAz3 — Python Package Index (@pypi) August 24, 2022 "We're actively reviewing reports of new malicious releases, and ensuring that they are removed and the maintainer accounts restored," says PyPI. "We're also working to provide security features like 2FA more prevalent across projects on PyPI." Along with this, the registry admins shared a number of steps one could take to safeguard themselves from such phishing attacks, such as checking the URL of the page before providing their PyPI account credentials: To verify that you’re not entering credentials in a phishing site, confirm that the URL in the address bar is https://t.co/diAe0xWm0R and that the site’s TLS certificate is issued to https://t.co/diAe0xWm0R . Additionally, consider using a browser-integrated password manager. pic.twitter.com/KRG0JK8NQU — Python Package Index (@pypi) August 24, 2022 This development follows May's hijack of the popular PyPI library 'ctx' that had prompted PyPI admins to mandate two-factor authentication for maintainers of critical projects. The repeated malware incidents and attacks involving open source software components have forced registry administrators to step up security across their platforms. It remains yet to be seen how well would the added burden of securing their projects, in addition to developing them, aligns with the expectations of an open source software developer. Related Articles: UK and South Korea: Hackers use zero-day in supply-chain attack Hackers breach healthcare orgs via ScreenConnect remote access Lazarus hackers breached dev repeatedly to deploy SIGNBT malware Hundreds of malicious Python packages found stealing sensitive data SIM swapper gets 8 years in prison for account hacks, crypto theft Hijack Open Source PyPI Python Supply Chain Supply Chain Attack Ax Sharma Ax Sharma is a Security Researcher and Tech Reporter. His works and expert analyses have frequently been featured by leading media outlets including the BBC, Business Insider, Fortune, TechCrunch, The Register, and others. Ax's expertise lies in vulnerability research, malware analysis, and open source software. He's an active community member of British Association of Journalists (BAJ) and Canadian Association of Journalists (CAJ).
Send any tips via email or Twitter DM. Previous Article Next Article Post a Comment Community Rules You need to login in order to post a comment Not a member yet? Register Now You may also like: Popular Stories Over 20,000 vulnerable Microsoft Exchange servers exposed to attacks Hackers use new Agent Raccoon malware to backdoor US targets Follow us: Main Sections News VPN Buyer Guides Downloads Virus Removal Guides Tutorials Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Community Forums Forum Rules Chat Useful Resources Welcome Guide Sitemap Company About BleepingComputer Contact Us Send us a Tip! Advertising Write for BleepingComputer Social & Feeds Changelog Terms of Use - Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure Copyright @ 2003 - 2023 Bleeping Computer ® LLC - All Rights Reserved Login Username Password Remember Me Sign in anonymously Sign in with Twitter Not a member yet? Register Now Reporter Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment? Spam Abusive or Harmful Inappropriate content Strong language Other Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited. Submitting... SUBMIT