ML Engine Detects PyPi Packages Containing “WhiteSnake” Malware Designed to Steal Your Personal Data | by Zeev Hananis | checkmarx-security | Medium ML Engine Detects PyPi Packages Containing “WhiteSnake” Malware Designed to Steal Your Personal Data Zeev Hananis · Follow Published in checkmarx-security · 4 min read · May 1 -- Listen Share The SCS team has been closely monitoring a threat actor under the label PYTA31, in a recent attack detected by our ML power engine. PYTA31 was found distributing the “WhiteSnake” malware. This attack was also reported a few days ago by JFrog’s security researchers. In the past few days, our obfuscation detection engine successfully uncovered several additional packages linked to this threat actor. Some of these packages remain accessible on the PyPI repository posing a potential risk to unsuspecting users. Dissecting the Malicious Payload The malicious code was embedded inside the package, base64 encoded, which also allowed the attacker to ship the binary within the code. After installation on the victim’s machine, the OS-specific code executes the corresponding payload. On Linux-type OS an exec command executes a simple python script, whereas, on a Windows-type machine, a more complex “WhiteSnake” malware executable is created and executed. After decoding the code, we found that it creates and runs an executable file on Windows-type systems. Analyzing the Executable: The executable creates a malicious scheduled task on the victim’s computer to run and persist the malware. The executable accesses several sensitive files, exfiltrating data such as installed programs, software versions, system information, and configuration using a TOR client. Obfuscation and Evasion Techniques The malware author took significant measures to impede researchers’ ability to understand the code. One of the techniques employed to achieve this involved using XOR obfuscation to conceal all string values present in the code. Obfuscator In order for us to understand the code better, we wrote a short Python script that deobfuscates it: Deobfuscator The attacker also took another step to make it harder for defenders by checking if the process is currently running on a virtual machine or if a debugger is attached. Analysis Evasion One technique involved in making the code more difficult to read was to make a short script much longer by adding unnecessary nested if statements that always returned “false” and didn’t actually do anything: Non-reachable if statements EXE Deep Dive The malware’s various classes and methods served distinct purposes: setting up the execution environment ( Class ap ), capturing system information ( Class cU1zCp ), and managing resources ( Class cXcv ). These methods were responsible for tasks such as directory creation, new process initiation, and garbage collection ( GC.Collect() ). Additionally, they gathered information about the user’s system, including username, machine name, IP location, screen resolution, CPU and GPU data, local disk size, memory, computer manufacturer and model, running processes, loaded DLLs, and the title of the active window. The malware also included a method for capturing a screenshot of the entire screen. The malware has eight different Command and Control (C2) servers listed inside it to maintain communication with the attacker's infrastructure and elongate its life if one server is taken down. This ensured resilience in case one server was compromised. The Remote Access Tool (RAT) ( Class dMKDNw ) listened on a local HTTP server for incoming commands, executed them, and returned the results to the caller. The malware also manipulated files and directories ( Class dQMxB_ ), deserializing XML data and processing it accordingly. The malware implemented a Tor expert bundle ( Class f1T0IP ) to obfuscate its communication channels further. This set of tools allowed the malware to run a Tor network for secure communication. Furthermore, the malware utilized various techniques such as string manipulation, date-time calculations, file compression, file handling ( Class fFFOw ), and a wrapper for application settings ( Class fxQ ). Anti-debugging and anti-virtualization measures were implemented within Class kjr , which terminated the process if it detected a virtual machine, sandbox environment, or an attached debugger. Another method in this class ensured the malware’s persistence by copying the executable to the user’s AppData folder and creating a shortcut in the startup folder. Conclusion Our ML engine successfully revealed and thwarted part of the malicious “WhiteSnake” campaign. This incident highlights the critical need for vigilance when it comes to open-source packages. While PyPI and other package managers offer valuable resources for developers, it is essential to vet any package thoroughly before implementing it in your projects. Moreover, investing in robust security measures, like our machine-learning malicious obfuscation detection engine, can help identify and neutralize potential threats before they wreak havoc. Don’t wait for the next attack; take action now to secure your software supply chain and protect your valuable data. Packages IOC - 1d1f25bec503ce48e7e63de4997f1518a06256abbd5b8c38f2764e9ea35a7258 - dff183ed204f46ab1dd6ae648b28b404f6e08f9328ad74c66f6d1c0688e30000 - hxxps://api.telegram[.]org/bot6209822134:AAHQxD-CI1YDVcNbXijXHlonsEUgv3dfYtg/sendMessage?chat_id=-1001529292045 - hxxps://transfer[.]sh/WALKER_WALKER PC_report.wsr - hxxps://archive.torproject[.]org/tor-package-archive/torbrowser/12.0.4/tor-expert-bundle-12.0.4-windows-x86_64.tar.gz - 178.62.222.195 - 185.69.55.151 - 152.69.212.12 - 46.101.5.250 - 139.162.97.121 - 83.137.50.106 - 96.43.85.54 Supply Chain Security Pypi Open Source Software Supply Chain -- -- Follow Written by Zeev Hananis 1 Follower · Editor for checkmarx-security Security Researcher @Checkmarx Follow More from Zeev Hananis and checkmarx-security Yehuda Gelb in checkmarx-security Python Obfuscation Traps In the realm of software development, open-source tools and packages play a pivotal role in simplifying tasks and accelerating development… 4 min read · Nov 8 -- 1 Yehuda Gelb in checkmarx-security Attacker Hidden in Plain Sight for Nearly Six Months, Targeting Python Developers It has become commonplace for attackers to invest a significant amount of time and effort within the open-source ecosystem. 6 min read · Nov 16 -- Jossef Harush Kadouri in checkmarx-security WASP Attack on Python — Polymorphic Malware Shipping WASP Stealer; Infecting Hundreds Of Victims In early November, several malicious packages were reported by Phylum and CheckPoint. We link these two reports to the same attacker with… 7 min read · Nov 15, 2022 -- Jossef Harush Kadouri in checkmarx-security 900+ Malicious Python Packages Manipulating Victim’s Clipboard to Steal Crypto Starting Feb 9 2023, an attacker published a total of 444 malicious packages via 22 different PyPi user accounts. The malicious packages… 4 min read · Feb 10 -- See all from Zeev Hananis See all from checkmarx-security Recommended from Medium Matt Creel in Posts By SpecterOps Team Members Abusing Slack for Offensive Operations: Part 2 When I first started diving into offensive Slack access, one of the best public resources I found was a blog post by Cody Thomas from back… 6 min read · Nov 9 -- Леонид Кочкуров Use Cases and Impact of NYM Introduction 15 min read · 4 days ago -- Lists Icon Design 31 stories · 167 saves Natural Language Processing 924 stories · 438 saves New_Reading_List 174 stories · 209 saves Staff Picks 519 stories · 483 saves Benjamin Lee in Towards Data Science The New Best Python Package for Visualising Network Graphs A guide on who should use it, when to use it, how to use it, and why I was wrong before… · 10 min read · Nov 23 -- 11 David Goudet This is Why I Didn’t Accept You as a Senior Software Engineer An Alarming Trend in The Software Industry · 5 min read · Jul 25 -- 49 Lachlan Smith in ZeroFlucs Securing GRPC on Kubernetes with mTLS Identities, Using Linkerd and Go Lachlan Smith from the ZeroFlucs Engineering team takes a dive into how we use strong identities, message authentication and encryption to… 6 min read · Jul 6 -- Herve Khg 3 years managing Kubernetes clusters, my 10 lessons. Over the past three years, I’ve navigated the sometimes turbulent waters of managing Kubernetes clusters. This journey, filled with… 4 min read · Nov 12 -- 19 See more recommendations Help Status About Careers Blog Privacy Terms Text to speech Teams