Several Malicious Typosquatted Python Libraries Found On PyPI Repository #1 Trusted Cybersecurity News Platform Followed by 4.50+ million       Get the Free Newsletter  Home  Newsletter  Webinars Home Data Breaches Cyber Attacks Vulnerabilities Webinars Store Contact    Resources Webinars THN Store Free eBooks About Site About THN Jobs Advertise with us Contact/Tip Us  Reach out to get featured—contact us to send your exclusive story idea, research, hacks, or ask us a question or leave a comment/feedback! Follow Us On Social Media       RSS Feeds  Email Alerts  Telegram Channel Several Malicious Typosquatted Python Libraries Found On PyPI Repository  Jul 30, 2021  Ravie Lakshmanan As many as eight Python packages that were downloaded more than 30,000 times have been removed from the PyPI portal for containing malicious code, once again highlighting how software package repositories are evolving into a popular target for supply chain attacks. "Lack of moderation and automated security controls in public software repositories allow even inexperienced attackers to use them as a platform to spread malware, whether through typosquatting, dependency confusion, or simple social engineering attacks," JFrog researchers Andrey Polkovnichenko, Omer Kaspi, and Shachar Menashe said Thursday. PyPI, short for Python Package Index, is the official third-party software repository for Python, with package manager utilities like pip relying on it as the default source for packages and their dependencies. The Python packages in question, which were found to be obfuscated using Base64 encoding, are listed below - pytagora (uploaded by leonora123) pytagora2 (uploaded by leonora123) noblesse (uploaded by xin1111) genesisbot (uploaded by xin1111) are (uploaded by xin1111) suffer (uploaded by suffer) noblesse2 (uploaded by suffer) noblessev2 (uploaded by suffer) The aforementioned packages could be abused to become an entry point for more sophisticated threats, enabling the attacker to execute remote code on the target machine, amass system information, plunder credit card information and passwords auto-saved in Chrome and Edge browsers, and even steal Discord authentication tokens to impersonate the victim. PyPI is hardly alone among software package repositories that have emerged as a potential attack surface for intruders, with malicious packages uncovered in npm and RubyGems equipped with capabilities that could potentially disrupt a whole system or serve as a valuable jumping-off point for burrowing deeper into a victim's network. Last month, Sonatype and Vdoo disclosed typosquatted packages in PyPi that were found to download and execute a payload shell script that, in turn, retrieved a third-party cryptominer such as T-Rex, ubqminer, or PhoenixMiner for mining Ethereum and Ubiq on victim systems. "The continued discovery of malicious software packages in popular repositories like PyPI is an alarming trend that can lead to widespread supply chain attacks," said JFrog CTO Asaf Karas. "The ability for attackers to use simple obfuscation techniques to introduce malware means developers have to be concerned and vigilant. This is a systemic threat, and it needs to be actively addressed on several layers, both by the maintainers of software repositories and by the developers." "On the developers' side, preventive measures such as verification of library signatures, and employing automated application security tools that scan for hints of suspicious code included in the project, should be an integral part of any CI/CD pipeline. Automated tools such as these can alert when malicious code paradigms are being used," Karas added. Found this article interesting? Follow us on Twitter  and LinkedIn to read more exclusive content we post. SHARE      Tweet  Share  Share  Share   Share on Facebook  Share on Twitter  Share on Linkedin  Share on Reddit  Share on Hacker News  Share on Email  Share on WhatsApp Share on Facebook Messenger  Share on Telegram SHARE  hacking news , Malware , PyPI , Python , Software , supply chain attack Trending News Zero-Day Alert: Google Chrome Under Active Attack, Exploiting New Vulnerability 6 Steps to Accelerate Cybersecurity Incident Response Law Enforcement Seizes Joker's Stash — Stolen Credit Card Marketplace Zero-Day Alert: Apple Rolls Out iOS, macOS, and Safari Patches for 2 Actively Exploited Flaws Experts Uncover Passive Method to Extract Private RSA Keys from SSH Connections Okta Discloses Broader Impact Linked to October 2023 Support System Breach Hackers Can Exploit 'Forced Authentication' to Steal Windows NTLM Tokens Key Cybercriminals Behind Notorious Ransomware Families Arrested in Ukraine Popular Resources Secure Your SaaS Stack with Adaptive Shield's Advanced SSPM Mastering Web App Security in 2023: A Must-Read Report Discover Hidden SaaS Risks in Minutes with Wing Security – No Cost, No Compromise Generative AI Security Guide for vCISOs, MSPs, and MSSPs Cybersecurity Webinars Master Application Detection and Response Learn Insider Threat Defense Techniques Discover how application detection, response, and automated behavior modeling can revolutionize your defense against insider threats. Register Think Like a Hacker, Defend Like a Pro Psychology of Social Engineering Ever wondered why social engineering works so well? Let's decode the mind of a cyber attacker. Register Breaking News Cybersecurity Resources 600+ Experts Reveal Key SaaS Security Gaps SaaS Gaps You Don't Know Can Hurt You – Learn More in the AppOmni 2023 Report. Discover Our Unparalleled Threat Detection Capabilities Try Fidelis Elevate for 30 days and discover threats your current provider missed. Webinar: A New Approach to Mitigating Insider Risks Learn how you can easily mitigate the modern security risks introduced by your employees. Earn a Master's in Cybersecurity Risk Management Lead the future of cybersecurity risk management with an online Master's from Georgetown. Join 120,000+ Professionals Sign up for free and start receiving your daily dose of cybersecurity news, insights and tips. Email Connect with us!  905,000 Followers  1,950,000 Followers  500,000 Followers  22,000 Subscribers  148,000 Followers  120,000 Subscribers Company About THN Advertise with us Contact Pages Webinars Deals Store Privacy Policy Deals Hacking Development Android  RSS Feeds  Contact Us © The Hacker News, 2023. All Rights Reserved.