PyPI packages steal Telegram cache files, add Windows Remote Desktop accounts Skip
    Navigation Back Platform Platform overview Automate your software supply chain security Sonatype Repository Firewall Block malicious open source at the door Sonatype Nexus Repository Build fast with centralized components Sonatype Lifecycle Control open source risk across your SDLC Why Sonatype Power every innovation with quality data Integrations Work in the tools, languages, and packages you already use Pricing Simple and predictable pricing model that fits your company Solutions Integrated Innovation Align dev, security, and ops teams to fuel secure deployment Developers Deliver quality code fast Application Security Manage vulnerability risks Legal & Compliance Enforce policy at scale By Industry Government Financial Services Manufacturing Technology Healthcare Pricing Resources Resources Featured The Forrester Wave™ Software Composition Analysis Featured State of the Software Supply Chain Report Launchpad Whitepapers & eBooks Webinars Blog Customer Stories DevZone Free Tools Sonatype Repository OSS Sonatype OSS Index Sonatype Vulnerability Scanner Customer Resources Training & Workshops My Sonatype Documentation Support Partners Become a Partner Join our extensive Sonatype  Partner Network Find a Partner Find and connect with a certified Sonatype partner Company About Explore our software supply chain management story Careers Innovate with us—explore opportunities at Sonatype Events Attend in-person or virtual learning events Newsroom Keep up to date on Sonatype in the news Contact Let’s talk software supply chain Book a Demo Book a Demo Book a Demo PyPI packages steal Telegram cache files, add Windows Remote Desktop accounts July 07, 2022 By Ax Sharma 3 minute read time SHARE: This week Sonatype has discovered multiple malicious PyPI packages that either set up new Remote Desktop user accounts on your Windows computer or steal encrypted Telegram data files from your Telegram Desktop client. These packages were discovered by Sonatype's automated malware detection system, offered as a part of the Sonatype Platform products, including Sonatype Repository Firewall . On a further review, we deemed these packages malicious and reported them to PyPI. The primary packages of interest are: flask-requests-complex php-requests-complex tkinter-message-box Create Remote Desktop access accounts on Windows Both packages 'flask-requests-complex' and 'php-requests-complex' contain no description but are certainly named after the popular 'requests' module. Both of these packages contain code that adds a new, attacker-created user account to the "Remote Desktop Users" group on Windows allowing attackers to RDP into the system at will. Additionally, the packages were seen making a simple HTTP request to a third-party URL to likely notify the threat actor that the attack was successful. Steals Telegram 'tdata' Cache & Settings Files The 'tkinter-message-box' package is yet another example of a malicious package named after 'tkinter' , Python's standard interface for a GUI toolkit, that comes without a valid description: But 'tkinter-message-box' contains no UI-related code or a message box utility. Instead, it attempts to locate where your Telegram Desktop client stores its 'tdata' files: 'tdata' files are purported to be encrypted files generated by the Telegram Desktop client to store settings and cache. Although it is unlikely for cache files to contain entire chat histories, they may contain JPG images, videos and other media exchanged via the Telegram app that may temporarily remain on the device. All of these packages were published by the same PyPI account 'ternaryternary' that's published seven packages in total thus far, nearly all of which seem suspicious. Some packages, such as ' bs4tools ' opened bind shells on the infected computers on non-conventional port numbers like '54689' to allow attackers remote access to infected Linux machines as well: The name ' bs4tools ' is once again a typosquatting attempt against the PyPI package 'bs4' aka 'beautifulsoup4'. Sonatype reported the suspicious account and these packages to the PyPI admins and the primary packages of interest were taken down within a few days of our report. Sonatype Repository Firewall users remain protected This discovery follows our last week's report of malicious Python cryptominers and over 345 dependency confusion packages that were timely discovered and reported by Sonatype. As a DevSecOps organization, we remain committed to identifying and halting attacks against open source developers and the wider software supply chain, like the ones discussed above. Users of Sonatype Repository Firewall can rest easy knowing that such malicious packages would automatically be blocked from reaching their development builds. Sonatype Repository Firewall instances will automatically quarantine any suspicious components detected by our automated malware detection systems while a manual review by a researcher is in the works, thereby keeping your software supply chain protected from the start. Sonatype's world-class security research data, combined with our automated malware detection technology safeguards your developers, customers, and software supply chain from infections. Tags: vulnerabilities , python , PyPI , featured , malware prevention , DevZone , Sonatype Repository Firewall Written by Ax Sharma Ax is a Security Researcher at Sonatype and Engineer who holds a passion for perpetual learning. His works and expert analyses have frequently been featured by leading media outlets. Ax's expertise lies in security vulnerability research, reverse engineering, and software development. In his spare time, he loves exploiting vulnerabilities ethically and educating a wide range of audiences. Learn more on: AUTHOR POSTS TOPIC POSTS Top 10 open source projects hit by HTTP/2 'Rapid Reset' zero-day Ax Sharma npm packages caught exfiltrating Kubernetes config, SSH keys Ax Sharma New npm PoC packages target PayPal Zettle, Airbnb developers Ax Sharma Dependency mapping: A beginner's guide vulnerabilities Open source risk management: Safeguarding software integrity vulnerabilities A closer look: Differentiating software vulnerabilities and malware vulnerabilities Secure your software supply chain Explore Platform Get Started Platform Overview Firewall Repository Lifecycle Integrations Pricing Other Products Container Auditor Advanced Legal Pack Lifecycle Foundation Solutions By Role Integrated Innovation Developers Application Security Legal & Compliance By Industry Government Financial Services Manufacturing Technology Healthcare Community Free tools Nexus Repository OSS Sonatype OSS Index Sonatype Vulnerability Scanner Resources Launchpad Log4j Updates Blog Whitepapers & eBooks Webinars Customer Stories Partners Find a Partner Become a Partner Customer Portal Training & Workshops Documentation My Sonatype Customer Support Company About Careers Newsroom Investors Contact Press Kit Trust Center Subscribe for all the latest software security news and events Terms of Service Privacy Policy Modern Slavery Statement Event Terms and Conditions Do Not Sell My Personal Information Copyright © 2008-present, Sonatype Inc. All rights reserved. Includes the third-party code listed here. Sonatype and Sonatype Nexus are trademarks of Sonatype, Inc. Apache Maven and Maven are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. M2Eclipse is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.