Typosquatting Attack on ‘requests’- One of the Most Popular Python packages | by Jossef Harush Kadouri | checkmarx-security | Medium Typosquatting Attack on ‘requests’- One of the Most Popular Python packages Jossef Harush Kadouri · Follow Published in checkmarx-security · 3 min read · May 31, 2022 -- Listen Share Python’s requests package is the unofficial champion when it comes to performing HTTP requests. While there are many 3rd party packages trying to help with making HTTP requests easier, the requests package is by far one of the best user experience packages out there with nearly 50,000,000 weekly installations. Attack On May 31, 09:29:11, Checkmarx’s automated package analysis technology reported a suspicious activity with multiple red flags. Tal Folkman , a senior security researcher in Checkmarx’s Supply Chain Security (SCS) research team, verified the malicious activity and revealed a multi-technique campaign, which was quickly reported to PyPi’s security team less than one hour after the attack was launched. Techniques As defenders, we see many attackers. One thing we can say for sure is those attackers evolving and keep improving their techniques. Typosquatting This technique relies on human typing mistakes and it is very clear in this case the attacker used it since the multiple similar permutations for the ‘requests’ package. StarJacking For those of you who haven’t heard about Starjacking, check out this blogpost . In this attack, the original ‘requests’ GitHub repository was named as the repository of the malicious packages, making them look highly popular and reliable. Usage of the StarJacking technique in this attack Execution Upon Usage The malicious payload is tricky and launches upon usage, meaning you must import the malicious package and use it in order to invoke the malicious code. IMHO this was done to avoid some security scanners as they blindly install the package to see what happens without actually using it. Disposable Account The PyPi account OrangeAlice is clearly fake. It was created on May 27th and contains a total of 11 packages. 1 test package and 10 typosquatting attempts. The attacker who published those packages stated in their metadata that his email is “me@kennethreitz.org”, an unvetted lie as this email actually belongs to the original maintainer of the original requests package, Kenneth Reitz. The Impact Crypto Miner The malicious code executed downloads an open source cryptominer software called “xmrig” version 6.17.0 from the official project’s release page on GitHub https://github.com/xmrig/xmrig xmrig payload on VirusTotal Once the software is downloaded and extracted, it is executed as a subprocess, provided with the attacker’s wallet address to collect the funds By checking the attacker’s wallet on https://supportxmr.com/ we’ve seen he has gained some traffic. Hostname Exfiltration In addition, the attacker send the victim’s hostname to his application hosted on serene-springs-50769[.]herokuapp[.]com Conclusion ‘requests’ is one of the most popular Python packages and a typosquatting attack on it can cause significant damage, this time in the form of a cryptominer. We have reported all packages to PyPI and working with them to block the attack as soon as possible. please exercise caution until the malicious packages are removed. Package Names IOCs serene-springs-50769[.]herokuapp[.]com 44ZptWtXxVhjLYGz8oKCMSW6nA9Gpc2RVYQDzyBnaM7VZkaCTGZGEANQTR3pNXK3mzZq1cVzKs1SA3H4Wibc6qVvG5xpcSY Checkmarx Got Your Back! Customers of Checkmarx are safe as our ahead of time cloud analysis technologies, seamlessly integrated with Checkmarx SCA solution, alerts from such accidental installation of malicious packages before it is shipped forward Requests Library Open Source Security Typosquatting Software Supply Chain -- -- Follow Written by Jossef Harush Kadouri 120 Followers · Editor for checkmarx-security Founder of dusti.co and zeronetworks.com . Writing about: Attackers, Software Supply Chain Security, and Malware Analysis Follow More from Jossef Harush Kadouri and checkmarx-security Jossef Harush Kadouri in checkmarx-security WASP Attack on Python — Polymorphic Malware Shipping WASP Stealer; Infecting Hundreds Of Victims In early November, several malicious packages were reported by Phylum and CheckPoint. We link these two reports to the same attacker with… 7 min read · Nov 15, 2022 -- Yehuda Gelb in checkmarx-security Python Obfuscation Traps In the realm of software development, open-source tools and packages play a pivotal role in simplifying tasks and accelerating development… 4 min read · Nov 8 -- 1 Yehuda Gelb in checkmarx-security Attacker Hidden in Plain Sight for Nearly Six Months, Targeting Python Developers It has become commonplace for attackers to invest a significant amount of time and effort within the open-source ecosystem. 6 min read · Nov 16 -- Jossef Harush Kadouri in checkmarx-security 900+ Malicious Python Packages Manipulating Victim’s Clipboard to Steal Crypto Starting Feb 9 2023, an attacker published a total of 444 malicious packages via 22 different PyPi user accounts. The malicious packages… 4 min read · Feb 10 -- See all from Jossef Harush Kadouri See all from checkmarx-security Recommended from Medium Bart Wrobel in Snowflake Transform XML files with XSLT in Snowflake — part 3 In Part 1 and Part 2, I have demonstrated how to process simple XML files with XSLT in Snowflake. This was merely a warm-up for a more… 10 min read · Oct 7 -- David Goudet This is Why I Didn’t Accept You as a Senior Software Engineer An Alarming Trend in The Software Industry · 5 min read · Jul 25 -- 49 Lists Staff Picks 519 stories · 483 saves Stories to Help You Level-Up at Work 19 stories · 335 saves Self-Improvement 101 20 stories · 979 saves Productivity 101 20 stories · 883 saves Mohammad Faisal in Level Up Coding Awesome Terminal Applications Sharpen the axe before you cut the wood. · 4 min read · Nov 13 -- 24 Kostas Behind the Scenes: The Daily Grind of Threat Hunter I turned a Twitter thread into a blog post on the topic of threat hunting. This is an example of the real-world steps involved during a… 7 min read · 4 days ago -- Леонид Кочкуров Use Cases and Impact of NYM Introduction 15 min read · 4 days ago -- Sheen Brisals in Towards Data Science Is Serverless Hard To Adopt? Understand the simple measures to make your serverless adoption a success! 13 min read · Nov 20 -- 1 See more recommendations Help Status About Careers Blog Privacy Terms Text to speech Teams