
Pyramid of Pain — Evolving our Defenses to Combat Supply Chain Attackers
Yehuda Gelb
Follow
Checkmarx Zero
101
Listen
Share
Threat intelligence is a crucial aspect of cybersecurity that helps organizations stay ahead of the game when it comes to protecting their assets from malicious attacks. One key tool used in threat intelligence is the pyramid of pain, introduced to the world by David Bianco, which provides a visual representation of the level of pain that a threat actor will experience in order to carry out their malicious activities.
The higher the level of monitoring and analysis applied to each part of the pyramid, the more difficult it becomes for the attacker to bypass the security measures. For instance, by closely monitoring and analyzing Indicators of Compromise (IOC), which are located at the bottom of the pyramid, attackers are deterred from using this simple method. Similarly, applying advanced security measures and monitoring the development of custom tools at the top of the pyramid makes it even more challenging for attackers to bypass security measures to perform their attacks.
So, where do we want to be in the pyramid of pain? The answer is simple: We want to cover the entire pyramid. The more levels of pain that a threat actor must endure, the more likely it is that their attack will be detected and thwarted.
Up the Pyramid of pain in the open source ecosystem
The reason I’m bringing up the pyramid of pain is because I’m going to share a valuable tool that defenders can use to be more effective when stopping supply chain attackers, and that is by monitoring open-source packages for known malware structures in the snippets of code. This type of monitoring provides a strategic advantage. Unlike other forms of IOC that may only focus on specific, changing components of malware (such as IP addresses), monitoring for malware structures provides a comprehensive and proactive approach to threat intelligence which allows organizations to quickly identify instances of malware, even if they have been modified, and respond accordingly before they can cause significant harm.
Let’s take the WASP malware as an example, which has been a recent concern in the cybersecurity community. We have seen this open-source malware spreading as a legitimate tool for open-source attackers. Monitoring for its known structure in open-source packages allows the open-source community to detect and respond to instances of the malware even if, for example, the IP address to which the attacker sends the stolen information has changed. This type of monitoring not only helps catch copycats of the Wasp malware but helps organizations stay ahead of the game in their threat intelligence efforts.
Analyzing the Signature of Malware for Improved Threat Detection
An example of a method that defenders can implement to quickly identify instances of malware is by using Yara rules. Organizations can incorporate Yara rules into their monitoring systems to even more effectively stop supply chain attackers. To demonstrate this, we can examine the WASP malware and see how it can be dissected and turned into a Yara rule.
Of course YARA rules is just one example of many methods defenders can implement to quickly identify instances of the malware. Our Yara rule for WASP is available for download on our os-scar/yara-signatures repository. This repository is also where we will be updating the database over time with additional Yara rules, so defenders can continue to improve their threat detection capabilities using this method and others.
Fortinet and ReversingLabs recently published findings of additional variants of the WASP malware, showing how effective monitoring for malware structures can be at continuously thwarting attacks. The ability to detect and respond to these variants highlights the importance of continuous monitoring for malware structures in open-source packages.
So where on the pyramid of pain do we put the monitoring of malware structures in open source?
Conclusion
monitoring open-source packages for known malware structures is a valuable tool that organizations can add to their threat intelligence arsenal by providing a proactive and comprehensive approach that helps organizations stay ahead of emerging attack techniques and quickly respond to instances of malware before they can cause significant harm. The pyramid of pain is a useful tool for visualizing the levels of difficulty a threat actor must face to carry out their malicious activities, and organizations can use it as a guide for their threat intelligence efforts.