
Instant Breach: Malicious Package Compromise — Victim vs Attacker’s POV
Yehuda Gelb
Follow
Checkmarx Zero
4
Listen
Share
Open-source packages are an indispensable tool for developers. However, the convenience they offer comes with a significant risk: the potential for instant breaches through malicious packages.
Consuming a malicious open-source package is equivalent to an instant breach. No current update strategy can match the speed at which these packages can compromise your systems.
In contrast to vulnerable packages, which pose a passive risk due to coding errors or oversights and only have potential impacts if exploited, malicious packages represent an active, immediate risk. They are designed with harmful intentions, such as stealing sensitive data and deploying backdoors and keyloggers, just to name a few.
Developers installing these malicious packages are often unaware that their systems have been compromised.
The following video demonstrates the simplicity of falling victim to a malicious package. In this example, the attacker infected the victim with a keylogger which automatically sends all keystrokes to the attacker via a webhook:
Unfortunately, current application security controls often focus on known Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs). Since malicious packages very rarely receive CVEs, this leaves organizations vulnerable to attacks.
Even Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) systems are unable to stop malicious package activity or send relevant alerts. Attackers are well aware of this weakness, which is why we are seeing a massive spike in targeted open-source supply chain attacks.
Conclusion
To fortify our defenses against these relentless cyber threats, our goal should be clear: prevent malicious packages from ever penetrating our Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC). The best approach is to screen open-source packages for malware before allowing them into the network.
By proactively addressing this risk, we can protect our systems and data from the instant breaches caused by malicious packages.
As part of the Checkmarx Supply Chain Security solution, our research team continuously monitors suspicious activities in the open-source software ecosystem. We track and flag “signals” that may indicate foul play and promptly alert our customers to help protect them.