
March in Software Supply Chain Security
Aviad Gershon
Follow
Checkmarx Zero
50
Listen
Share
During the past month, we have witnessed a series of severe software supply chain attacks that have revealed shifts in the tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) attackers have been using to enhance their attacks.
Protestware
An NPM user account named “riaevangelist”, belonging to a pro-Ukraine, released several new versions of its popular package (over million weekly downloads) “node-ipc”. This version of the package included a wiper functionally targeting Russian and Belarusian IP addresses, which, once downloaded, ran a malicious payload, destroying all files on disk by overwriting their content with a heart emoji “❤️.” (report)
 
 This incident continues a growing trend in which several other packages (with millions of weekly downloads) were found changing their behavior to protest against the war. (report)
This ongoing trend re-raises some debates about the legitimacy of these actions and the damage to the trust developers put in these specific packages, their developers, and the ecosystem as a whole.
Other questions concerning these incidents are regarding our security reaction to them. Should we opt for alternative packages or just lock our project to the most recent clean version? What about other packages by the same user? Should we avoid using them as well? Would Russian contributors use this method as well?
A Beautiful Factory for Malicious Packages — Red-Lili
A group of attackers has built an outstanding automation process that allows them to publish over 1500 malicious packages to NPM most of them from separate user accounts. Visit red-lili.info for an updating list of the package and more. This is the largest batch found to date, and it seems the attack is still ongoing and the attackers continue to develop their abilities. 
 Attackers that invest in the resources to fully automate the process of enrolling, creating, and publishing malicious NPM packages will increase dramatically the number of malicious packages that contaminate the open-source ecosystems. (report)
Webhook Party
Malicious packages were caught containing a payload that uses legitimate SaaS services for data exfiltration. The combination of TLS encrypted traffic with the usage of known and legitimate sites makes it even harder for defenders to identify sensitive information being exfiltrated from their networks.
This behavior is part of an alarming trend we see in recent attacks. (Report)
All of these severe attacks happened just last month.
 Our team will continue to search and remove malicious packages in our effort to keep the open-source ecosystem safe.
Stay tuned…