
Researchers Are Poisoning Open-Source Packages. What Should We do?
Aviad Gershon
Follow
Checkmarx Zero
1
Listen
Share
In the field of open-source security, researchers often publish malicious packages or poison existing ones with malicious code. These proofs of concepts (POCs) are done in an attempt to verify whether an attacker with malicious intent would be able to cause similar damage — or worse.
However, while performing these actions, security researchers should adhere to several guidelines that will enable them to complete their research while keeping the ecosystem safe and clean to the maximum extent possible.
Mr. Robot, is that you?
Back in June this year, the PyPi user “mega707” published hundreds of typosquatting/dependency confusion packages. These packages include code that tries to exfiltrate user data to a remote address upon installation.
Interestingly, a few days before, an NPM user going by the same name published more than a hundred javascript packages with similar functionality. In both cases, the data exfiltrated out is not particularly sensitive.
With the avatar taken from the popular TV series “Mr. Robot,” it seems that the individual behind these users and packages is a security researcher experimenting with these kinds of attacks, gathering data, or trying to collect some bug bounty prizes. While doing so, this researcher is spamming these package managers and failing to publish the appropriate “for research purposes” disclaimer, although his HackerOne contact and GitHub account were available (identifying him as a researcher).
Spreading malicious code as a fun side project
Another example of what seems to be unintended consequences for an experiment is the story of three malicious Python packages containing ransomware scripts that were uncovered by Sonatype in August this year.
1. requesys
2. requesrs
3. Requesr
These packages had similar names to the famous Requests package to trick unsuspecting developers into downloading the packages.
What was intriguing in this case was that after downloading the malicious package, a malicious script would traverse a Windows user’s folders, checking if the Windows machine belonged to a user named ‘GIAMI’ (probably the author of the package). If not, the script encrypts the user’s files.
Once all files were successfully encrypted, a popup message would appear on the user’s screen, instructing them to join b8ff aka “OHR” (Only Hope Remains) Discord server to receive the decryption keys.
It turned out the author of the malicious files (b8ff ) was just a school-going “learning developer” who had recently been intrigued by exploits and the ease of producing them.
b8ff claimed and believed he had done nothing wrong since the ransomware script was “completely open source” and part of a “project that was developed for fun.” And despite the packages containing code that encrypts the user’s data, they were technically “harmless.” since the decryption key was provided for “free.”
The problem is that the three typo-squatted packages neither contained a clear disclaimer stating that these were published for ethical research purposes nor deterred anyone from infecting their machines should they make a typographical error when attempting to download the genuine ‘requests.’
This makes the case more of a gray area rather than outright malicious activity.
The author later renamed the ‘requesys’ package to prevent further typosquatting victims, effectively thwarting the attack. The other two packages were removed from PyPI
Without prompt action from b8ff, this incident could easily have escalated into a research experiment going wrong.
In another incident, the researcher strayed far from the custom “code of conduct” and caused significantly more damage.
ctx & phpass incidents
In May this year, a security researcher poisoned several popular packages with millions of downloads in the ctx and phpass incidents. In that case, the malicious code was stealing sensitive AWS secrets. In addition, the researcher rendered one of the packages unusable by overwriting its legitimate version affecting thousands of users. Needless to say, this researcher didn’t bother to declare himself as one.
During our investigation of this incident, we revealed the researcher’s identity and were amazed to see his audacity when he responded to our post portraying the case.
Conclusion
We, as security professionals, need to adhere to certain guidelines while conducting our research, which among others, include the following:
1. Do No Harm — refrain from breaking existing components.
2. Transparency — declare our activity “for research purposes” to anyone who may encounter it.
3. Discretion — avoid collecting or revealing sensitive data of other parties.
These basic rules should be obvious to any researcher and are only a few of a more extensive set of guidelines. Unfortunately, as evident by the above examples, these need to be reiterated to everyone’s attention.