
Protestware, Politics, and Open Source Software
Aviad Gershon
Follow
Checkmarx Zero
101
Listen
Share
Intro
The popular NPM package node-ipc was purposely infected with a malicious payload by its own creator to protest over the Russia-Ukraine war. This package has over a million weekly downloads and hundreds of direct dependent packages, including the popular Vue CLI project.
GitHub user RIAEvangelist/NPM user riaevangelist published new code to GitHub and NPM to protest Russian aggression in the Russia-Ukraine war:

Published new NPM package peacenotwar, which drops benign protest messages on the target machine.
Added peacenotwar as a new dependency to node-ipc package.
Added a new file dao/ssl-geospec.js to node-ipc package. This addition targets users having Russian or Belarusian IP addresses and running a malicious payload, destroying all files on disk by rewriting their content with a heart emoji “❤️”.
The main discussion about this incident started and is still ongoing in an issue on the package’s github repository. Since GitHub user RIAEvangelist is the owner of the Git repository github.com/RIAEvangelist/node-ipc, he has permission to edit other users’ Issues. From the Issue history shown below, we observed he also purposely edited the Issue’s title and description multiple times in an attempt to corrupt the information shared by the concerned users.
However, the history is still available. This way, we can see that the issue’s originator has declared the code as “malware/protestware” a new(ish) phrase that caught even “RIAEvangelist”’s eye:
This incident comes not long after the “colors” incident which might signify the beginning of a trend in which an influential package owner uses their “stage” to advocate for an idea or an issue they care about, catching the attention of many. “RIAEvangelist” himself winked to the “color” incident by adding this package as a new dependency to one of the new questionable versions of “node-ipc”.
Details
To summarize the investigation’s findings, the following table contains all information of affected packages and versions related to this incident:
Package “node-ipc”
A new file was added to the package dao/ssl-geospec.js and from the looks of it, it seems it is minified:
The code is executed automatically with a slight delay, it is geo-location aware, and activates the malicious payload only for users connected to the internet from Russia or Belarus. To become location-aware, the code is using the API of the free service ipgeolocation.io.
Once the condition to proceed with the malicious payload is fulfilled, the code tries to overwrite all the files on the victim’s machine with “❤️” (the heart emoji).
Courtesy of the user zkyf, we have a more readable version of the original code:
Packages “peacenotwar”, “oneday-test”
Writes a file called “WITH-LOVE-FROM-AMERICA.txt” is being created on 3 locations:
- ~/Desktop/WITH-LOVE-FROM-AMERICA.txt
- ~/OneDrive/WITH-LOVE-FROM-AMERICA.txt
- ~/OneDrive/Desktop/WITH-LOVE-FROM-AMERICA.txt
The content of the file is a short statement written in 5 different languages — English, Russian, Arabic, Chinese, and Japanese:
Within the code, there’s a function that copies “WITH-LOVE-FROM-AMERICA.txt” to the 3 locations on the victim’s machine:
IOCs

hxxps://api.ipgeolocation[.]io/ipgeo?apiKey=ae511e1627824a968aaaa758a5309154
ChainAlert
ChainAlert is a free service by Checkmarx, which is a monitoring system that observes the open source ecosystem, and alerts package maintainers and developers of potential account takeover attacks.
In this specific case, ChainAlert bot has detected abnormal activity and notified about it with an issue on the GitHub repository. Obviously, since these actions were done deliberately by the “legitimate” owner of the project, the issue was closed by “RIAEvangelist” and was not dealt with any further.
Learning from this case, we plan to add detection of such self-sabotage cases to ensure that incidents such as this will be picked up quickly.
Conclusion
This incident raises again the question of whether it is within the rights of the code’s owner to change it in whichever way they see fit, even at the cost of causing damage to other users depending on it.
As seen in the near past, this isn’t the first time we encounter such behavior, it seems likely that other prominent developers will follow and share their agenda in a similar manner. It also looks fitting to start using the term “protestware” to describe this kind of software.