
At Socket Security, our dedication is ensuring that your journey through various package ecosystems - from npm to Go, PyPI, and beyond - remains threat-free. Here are some highlights from recent scans by our Socket AI product:
Persistent Roblox Impersonators
noblox.js, a popular Roblox API wrapper, is again under attack. Last year noblox was the unfortunate victim of an extensive malware campaign using typosquats to infect users.  After a period of calm, such attempts have picked up again. Socket AI detected counterfeit packages, such as noblox.js-secure and noblox.js-vps.  These packages proceed by first downloading a batch file containing a virus:
And then exfiltrating user credentials through a Discord webhook:
We promptly reported these packages and they were subsequently removed from the npm registry.
A Lucky Discord Typosquat
On August 4th, Socket AI pinpointed a dubious package: discordd.jss. This typosquat of discord.js contains a simple data stealer, targeting user credentials and crypto wallets.  Socket AI immediately identified the package. However, it remained on npm for a few hours before being taken down. During that time, it accumulated over 400 downloads.
Creative use of DNS TXT records
Unusual activity was flagged by Socket AI in the email-helpers package on August 7th. This package claimed to be "A javascript library to validate email address against different formats" but in reality it does quite a bit more...  The starting point is this suspicious code masquerading as an integrity check in an install script.  What is interesting is that the actual payload was hidden inside a DNS TXT record (now removed)
Which can be decrypted into the following:

This is used with an intentional command injection to trigger downloading and running malicious code on the victim's machine.  While this sort of attack would be difficult for conventional static analysis to detect, Socket AI was able to identify the suspicious code.  We reported this package to npm and it has been removed.
Stealing your data (unless you work at Tencent...)
On August 7th, another data stealer caught our attention:  @goatapp/web-content-components. The obfuscated code can be unpacked as follows:
Uniquely, it seemed to purposely deactivate in environments linked to Taobao or Tencent npm mirrors, hinting at a selective attack strategy.
The Socket Security Advantage
Every week we flag hundreds of similar attempts to sabotage open source ecosystems.  Socket's AI toolset, with its advanced LLMs, ensured accurate detection and interpretation of these threats across all our supported ecosystems.