
This week the U.S. Intelligence Community (IC) published its 2024 Annual Threat Assessment in connection with a public Worldwide Threats hearing of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. The IC includes the CIA, FBI, NSA, Department of State, DIA, and ODNI, among other agencies. Their concerns ranged from biological pathogens and election interference to the weaponization of space, across one of the most challenging threat environments the community has ever documented.
In his opening remarks, committee chairman Mark Warner commented on the rise in competition around new technologies, which is redefining how the agencies think about national security:
The report features analysis of some of the primary states engaging in “competitive behavior that directly threatens U.S. national security,” including China, Russia, North Korea, and Iran. It cites China as “the most active and persistent cyber threat to U.S. Government, private-sector, and critical infrastructure networks.” Cyber threats from Russia were identified as espionage, influence, and attack capabilities against critical infrastructure and industrial control systems.
North Korea's cyber program was cited as being responsible for “agile espionage, cybercrime, and attack threats,” with an emphasis on cryptocurrency: “North Korea will continue its ongoing cyber campaign, particularly cryptocurrency heists; seek a broad variety of approaches to launder and cash out stolen cryptocurrency; and maintain a program of IT workers serving abroad to earn additional funds.”
Top Threats Expected in 2024: Global Cybercrime and Ransomware#
The IC’s report warns of transnational threats from state-actors that precipitate cascading risks and conflict across borders, particularly in the ransomware arena where cybercriminals exploit vulnerabilities for financial gain and geopolitical leverage:
The IC credits the emergence of “inexpensive and anonymizing online infrastructure combined with the growing profitability of ransomware” for the recent increases in global cybercrime, which is becoming more decentralized, sophisticated, and efficient. It also attributes this rise in ransomware to the tendency for groups to rebrand and renew their activities following disruption or law enforcement action.
“Absent cooperative law enforcement from Russia or other countries that provide cyber criminals a safe haven or permissive environment, mitigation efforts will remain limited,” the report stated. These factors are not likely to change anytime soon.
The recently released FBI Internet Crime Report also marked an increase in ransomware incidents, with over 2,825 complaints logged in 2023, an 18% increase over 2022. Reported losses also rose 74%, from $34.3 million to $59.6 million last year. It’s important to note that many incidents are not reported to the FBI and are therefore not represented in these numbers.
The FBI noted that cybercriminals continue to adjust their tactics. Emerging ransomware trends they noted include the deployment of multiple ransomware variants against the same victim and the use of data-destruction tactics to increase pressure on victims to negotiate.
$13 Billion Budget Proposed to Bolster Federal Cybersecurity#
The White House’s proposed budget plan for 2025 was published today, with major increases allocated for protection against foreign adversaries as it relates to cybersecurity and the safeguarding of public services. This includes the following notable highlights:

$13 billion in cybersecurity funding across civilian departments and agencies
$3 billion for the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) (a $103 million increase)
$470 million to deploy Federal network tools, including endpoint detection and response capabilities
$394 million for CISA’s internal cybersecurity and analytical capabilities
$41 million for critical infrastructure security coordination
$116 million for critical infrastructure cyber event reporting
The proposed budget plan includes a section specific to investing in healthcare cybersecurity, where disruptions put patient care and safety at risk. The HHS marked a 95% increase in large data breaches of healthcare systems from 2018-2022, including ransomware attacks. As part of the proposed budget, $800 million was earmarked to help “high need, low-resourced hospitals cover the upfront costs associated with implementing essential 84 Department of Health and Human Services cybersecurity practices.” An additional $500 million would be allocated to an incentive program that encourages hospitals to invest in advanced cybersecurity practices.
As part of an effort to address emerging cyber and counterintelligence threats, the budget also expands DOJ’s ability to investigate threats with investments in the FBI’s cyber investigative capabilities, including the following:

$25 million to enhance cyber response and counterintelligence capabilities
$5 million to expand a new section within the DOJ’s National Security Division to focus on cyber threats
$2 million for DOJ to support implementation of Executive Order 14110, “Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence.”
This week marked an important milestone as intelligence agencies justified the costs of these budget requests through a flurry of reports that summarize the threats from 2023 and those anticipated to persist in the coming years.
The U.S. Intelligence Community (IC) painted a stark picture with its 2024 Annual Threat Assessment outlining the how cyberattacks – particularly ransomware – continues to pose a significant risk to critical infrastructure and national security.
While the budget increase is substantial, the IC report acknowledges the limitations of unilateral action. The report highlights the need for international cooperation to disrupt cybercriminal havens and deter state-sponsored attacks.The success of the U.S. response will likely hinge on its ability to foster such collaboration alongside its own domestic efforts.