
We’re excited to release first version of Socket’s Python Software Development Kit (SDK), now available on PyPI. Our SDK simplifies integrating Socket's security features into your Python applications by providing a user-friendly wrapper around the Socket REST API.
We designed this SDK to make it easier for our customers who user Python to integrate Socket into their workflows. It makes it possible for developers to easily retrieve detailed information on npm package issues, scores, dependencies, organization settings, and more.
What Does the Socket Python SDK Offer?#

Interact with Socket API: Provides a simple interface to access and interact with the Socket REST API from Python projects.
Retrieve Package Issues and Scores: Allows developers to fetch issues and security scores for specific versions of packages for the ecosystems we support with the purl endpoint.
Manage Dependencies: Offers functionality to retrieve and submit dependency information for your organization, including uploading manifest files.
Organization Data: Retrieves information related to your Socket.dev organization, such as reports, settings, and quota usage.
Full Scans: Enables the creation and management of full dependency scans, including retrieving Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) data.
Repository Tracking: Offers tools to track and manage information about repositories connected to your Socket.dev organization.
Getting Started with the Socket Python SDK#
Installing the Socket Python SDK is as simple as running:
pip install socket-sdk-python
Developers can then easily integrate the SDK into their projects, allowing them to streamline monitoring and managing package dependencies, retrieving security scores, viewing reports, and tracking issues. Detailed instructions for setting up and using the SDK can be found in the project description on PyPI, including all the available parameters and functions.
Check out our product changelog for all the information on the latest fixes and improvements. Moving forward, all updates will be published to the SDK’s package on PyPI. Feel free to get in touch if you have any feedback or suggestions. We would love to hear from you, as your input helps us continuously improve and tailor the SDK to better meet your security needs.