
Ecma International, Technical Committee 39 (TC39) delegates gathered this week in Tokyo, hosted by Sony Interactive Entertainment, for one of its six plenary meetings that happen over the course of a year. The group is responsible for defining ECMAScript (JavaScript) and related standards and this was their 104th meeting.
During these meetings, the delegates consider proposals for advancement through a structured process that guides the evolution of an idea into a fully defined feature, including acceptance tests and multiple implementations. This process consists of six stages: an initial strawperson stage followed by five "maturity" stages, with committee approval required at each step.
Thanks to on-the-ground “ECMAScript excitement” updates from TC39 co-chair Rob Palmer, we have a general idea of how the current proposals are progressing. The agenda includes consideration of proposals for advancement, along with updates and discussion on other proposals in various stages.

Most of the proposals on the agenda have advanced to the next stages, with the exception of a few that will be discussed the following day.
Iterator Helpers to Stage 4#
The Iterator Helpers proposal has reached Stage 4, where the proposed feature is complete and ready to be included in the standard. No further changes will be made to the proposal. It will be merged into ECMA-262:

Import Attributes & JSON Modules to Stage 4#
The Import Attributes & JSON Modules proposal has moved to Stage 4 where it will be included in the standard.

Iterator Sequencing to Stage 2.7#
Iterator Sequencing is moving to Stage 2.7 where it is approved in principle and undergoing validation from tests, implementations, or usage. This proposal allows for creating iterators by sequencing existing iterators.

Regular Expression Modifiers to Stage 4#
Regular Expression Modifiers has reached Stage 4, and will be added to the standard. It allows you to change the active regular expression flags within a subexpression.

Structs & Shared Structs to Stage 2#
Structs and Shared Structs advanced to Stage 2, where the committee has chosen a preferred solution or solution space, but the design is a draft and may still change significantly.This proposal seeks to introduce four shared memory features that would enable new, high-performance applications to be written in JavaScript and on the web and give developers an alternative to classes that favors a higher performance ceiling and statically analyzability over flexibility.

Math.sumPrecise to Stage 3#
The Math.sumPrecise proposal has moved to Stage 3, where it has officially been recommended for implementation. It proposes adding a method to sum multiple values to JavaScript.

Extractors to Stage 2#
Extractors has moved to Stage 2 where the committee has chosen a preferred solution or solution space, but the design is a draft and may still change significantly. The proposal would introduce Extractors (a.k.a. "Extractor Objects") to ECMAScript that would augment the syntax for BindingPattern and AssignmentPattern to allow for new destructuring forms

Promise.try to Stage 4#
Promise.try has advanced to Stage 4 and will be included as part of the standard. The proposal adds a new feature in JavaScript called Promise.try. It would allow developers to wrap a function in a Promise for improved error handling, offering a more straightforward way to start promise chains. This method ensures that the function passed to it is executed immediately and returns a promise, making it easier to handle synchronous exceptions and asynchronous operations uniformly.

Atomics.pause to Stage 3#
Atomics.pause has moved to Stage 3 where it has officially been recommended for implementation:
Atomics.pause(N)
Atomics.wait
N
N

Error.isError to Stage 2.7#
Error.isError has advanced to Stage 2.7 where it is approved in principle and undergoing validation from tests, implementations, or usage. The proposal introduces a new method for developers to test if a value is an error instance.

Array.zip for Stage 1, or 2, or 2.7#
The Array.zip proposal will be discussed tomorrow and is expected to advance to Stage 1, 2, or 2.7. The proposal would add Array.zip and Array.zipKeyed static methods to the Array constructor.
Immutable ArrayBuffers for Stage 1#
The Immutable ArrayBuffers proposal will also be discussed tomorrow and is expected to advance to Stage 1 where the committee will devote time to examining the identified problem space, the full breadth of possible solutions, and cross-cutting concerns. This proposal follows previous successful proposals for In-Place Resizable and Growable ArrayBuffers and ArrayBuffer.prototype.transfer and friends. It seeks to enable the creation of an immutable buffer, i.e., a non-detached buffer whose contents cannot be changed, resized, or detached.
The committee will also be discussing various other topics and progress on other proposals without stage advancement, including the following:

AsyncContext
Dataview Clamped Methods
Decimal
Discard Bindings
ESM Phase Imports
Explicit Compile Hints
Intl.DurationFormat
JSSugar
Math.emplace
Measure Object
Observables
Porffor
Smart Units
Temporal
All open ECMAScript proposals and their current stages are tracked in a table on GitHub with their most recent presentation dates and responsible parties. If you want to follow along with the discussion topics, including those unrelated to proposals, check out the agenda for the 104nd meeting of Ecma TC39 on GitHub.
class
Array.zip
Array.zipKeyed
Array
ArrayBuffer