
We’re gearing up for an unforgettable week at BlackHat and DEF CON, and we’re excited to meet you in Las Vegas! We know this week can be hectic, so Socket is putting together another Campfire Security Stories event this year, along with a dinner event, where attendees will have the chance to relax and meet some interesting people in the industry.
Space is extremely limited, but if your schedule permits, we’d love to have you join us. These events have always been a huge hit, and we’re excited about the fantastic groups joining us this time.
🌟 Here’s what’s happening:#
Black Hat Campfire Stories: Socket, Truffle Security and Resourcely are hosting a group of technology leaders for a casual hangout to escape the madness of Black Hat!
Join us at the Presidential Suite at the Four Seasons Hotel in Las Vegas for an afternoon full of security stories from our lineup of industry experts. With Chatham House Rules in play, the discussions will be nothing short of mind-blowing. Enjoy light refreshments and pick up some fun swag from your hosts!
Event Details:

When: Wednesday & Thursday (August 7th and 8th) 12 PM - 8 PM
Book Time: Register for Black Hat Campfire Stories
Location: Four Seasons Hotel Las Vegas, 3960 S Las Vegas Blvd, Las Vegas, NV 89119, USADetails for the Suite Number will be emailed to you in the days leading up to the event

Details for the Suite Number will be emailed to you in the days leading up to the event

Secure By Design Dinner: In 2023 CISA launched Secure by Design, a blueprint to guide companies in building secure software from the start. Software remains one of the few unregulated industries today, with aerospace, transportation, food, and all other vital sectors having strict regulations to protect consumers.
Apply to attend our Secure by Design Dinner with a panel featuring Joe Sullivan (former CSO Uber, CloudFlare, Facebook), Oliver Friedrichs (Pangea Founder and CEO), Feross Aboukhadijeh (CEO Socket) and Christina Cacioppo (CEO and cofounder at Vanta).
Event Details:

When: Wednesday (August 7th) 6:00 - 9:00 PM
Book Time: Register for dinner!
Location: Bardot BrasserieNote: All registrations will need to be approved by our event team.

Note: All registrations will need to be approved by our event team.
📌 Make sure to RSVP to secure your spot at these events.#
We understand that with so many events happening, it can be overwhelming to decide where to spend your time. That’s why we want to make it simple for you to connect with us, as well as other professionals who are passionate about making a difference in tech security.
Choose the event that’s the best fit for you and come meet the team behind Socket. We’re looking forward to a fantastic Black Hat and DEF CON week and hope to see you at one of our events!

Details for the Suite Number will be emailed to you in the days leading up to the event

Note: All registrations will need to be approved by our event team.