
A German court handed down a chilling verdict in a recent case involving a security researcher who analyzed software on behalf of a client and found Modern Solution GmbH & Co.'s retail customer passwords stored in plain text. The court ruled that the programmer’s actions constituted unauthorized access to external computer systems and spying on data, and issued a €3,000 ($3,265) fine.
Modern Solution offers services in the e-commerce sector, connecting 700,000 customers’ merchandise management systems to online marketplaces for large European marketplaces like Otto, Kaufland, and Check24. The incident took place in June 2021, when the researcher reported the issue to Modern Solution with a three-day deadline to fix it. The company denied that there was a gap in their security but took their systems offline the next day to fix the issue.
Following the chilly reception to the security report, and Modern Solution’s refusal to give comment to a reporter, the programmer went for blood with a speedy disclosure to tech journalist Mark Steier. Steier’s detailed report shows how easily accessible Modern Solution’s databases were, as the credentials were hard coded into the application:
After connecting to the database, the researcher also demonstrated how retail customer data was accessible, not just for the client who had requested help debugging excessive log generation issues, but for all 700,000+ Modern Solution customers.
The publication called for customers to seek legal counsel, and characterized the security flaws as signs of corporate negligence and incompetence:
Modern Solutions reported the programmer to the police, presumably because of how the situation unfolded so rapidly in the press. They also published a statement the same day as the news article:
According to Heise, a German IT publication, police arrived at the researcher’s residence on September 15, 2021, “gained access to the apartment and pushed him against the wall. The police confiscated a PC, five laptops, a cell phone and five external storage media - the programmer's entire work device.”
How did the court land on this decision?#
The court convicted the researcher, calling into question whether accessing software with weak password protection through readily available methods constitutes hacking. The judge concluded that because the software had a password for connection, using that password to connect to the database was a criminal offense.
The defense countered that the researcher's actions were ethical security testing, exposing vulnerabilities to help the company improve its software's security as part of a “functional analysis” for one of Modern Solution’s customers. They argued that weak password protection shouldn't be criminalized, and that the researcher's methods were no different from what any skilled attacker could employ.
Ultimately the court sided with the prosecution, finding the researcher guilty of hacking. This raises concerns about how the verdict will impact ethical security research and and whether it could potentially hinder efforts to improve corporate software security.
Since the defendant had no prior convictions, the court was lenient in fining the researcher less the amount demanded by the public prosecutor, as opposed to the worst penalty which would have been three years in prison.
The researcher has appealed the verdict, and the case is likely to be retried in a higher court. The outcome could set a precedent for future cases involving ethical hacking and software vulnerabilities.
An ill-intentioned hacker could have done far more damage to the company and its reputation, potentially disrupting services, selling customer data, or selling the vulnerability on the black market. Instead of thanking the researcher, the company repaid him by criminalizing the activity that led to them securing their systems.
Researchers and Experts Roundly Condemn the Verdict#
In related discussion on Mastodon, commenters likened the verdict to being convicted of breaking and entering after being handed the key, or after having found the key left under a door mat. One commenter, @ww@xyzzy.link, recommended a more precise metaphor:
Tamas Lengyel, security researcher at Intel, noted that if a company has no defined security reporting policy and/or an active bug bounty, it’s not surprising that they might be a bad actor in other ways, like reporting a researcher who is trying to help the company address a critical issue.
This interpretation of the law in this disturbing case has sparked discussion about the nature of security research.
“It shouldn't matter how strong the protection was,“ systems administrator @wolf480pl@mstdn.io commented. “The purpose of security research is to find flaws in protections, the same flaws that could be used to do something malicious. That's the whole point. The difference between a security researcher and a cybercriminal isn't what protections they bypass, it's what they do after they find out that they can bypass a protection.”
Security researcher Wladimir Palant echoed that sentiment.
“Abusing hardcoded credentials can definitely constitute hacking and cause perfectly justified criminal charges,” Palant said. “But intention and damage caused definitely need to go into the equation, not merely ‘circumvention of protection mechanisms.’”
The verdict in this case doesn’t serve the greater good of the people, as a programmer reporting a vulnerability in good faith was mistreated, and the retail customers of the company had their data easily accessible for years without Modern Solution having any repercussions. If the next ruling doubles down on the court’s ignorance, security researchers in Germany may be less eager to evaluate vulnerable systems, potentially stifling essential cybersecurity efforts and leaving systems at risk.
“I very much hope that there will be a next instance ruling overturning this decision again,” security researcher Wladimir Palant said. “But it’s exactly as people feared: no matter how flawed the supposed ‘protection,’ its mere existence turns security research into criminal hacking under the German law. This has a chilling effect on legitimate research, allowing companies to get away with inadequate security and in the end endangering users.”