
We are thrilled to announce that Socket has been recognized in Fortune’s new Cyber 60 listing. For decades, Fortune has ranked businesses with a transparent methodology and rigorous evaluation, consistently surfacing world-changing organizations. This prestigious list identifies some of the fastest-growing startups in the cybersecurity space, and we are honored to be counted among these fellow innovators.
For years, security products have focused on scanning for known vulnerabilities (CVE’s), a defensive approach that hasn’t kept pace with modern software development, where the average npm package has 79 transitive dependencies. In a supply chain attack, a malicious dependency can be updated, merged, and running in production in a matter of days or hours.
We saw the need for developers to have more intelligent tools that work seamlessly in the background as a natural part of their workflows and enable them to maintain a high standard of security in response to increasingly sophisticated threats. Our AI-powered threat detection alerts developers to suspicious package updates in real-time. It is now protecting 4,000+ organizations and 200,000+ repositories from vulnerable and malicious open source dependencies.
Socket was created to proactively address the urgent mandate of securing open source software at scale, so the world can continue benefiting from collaborative innovation without compromising on the integrity and safety of our critical infrastructure. As open source maintainers ourselves, it was important for us to create tools that solve real problems for those who are in the trenches, supporting the software that everyone is using to build the future.
We are inspired by all the other finalists on Fortune’s Cyber 60 list, especially those who share our vision of making the open source world a safer place. As we celebrate this recognition, we remain committed to addressing emerging threats and helping developers ship faster with confidence. We are excited about the challenges and opportunities ahead to redefine developers’ expectations in the cybersecurity industry.