
HackerGPT is an advanced AI tool created specifically for the cybersecurity industry, handy for individuals engaged in ethical hacking and cyber security research like bug bounty hunters.
This sophisticated assistant is at the forefront of cyber intelligence, providing an extensive collection of hacking methods, tools, and tactics. HackerGPT is not just a place for storing information; it actively assists users in navigating the intricacies of cybersecurity.
Various tools powered by ChatGPT, like OSINVGPT, PentestGPT, WormGPT, and BurpGPT, have already been created for the cyber security community, and HackerGPT is now adding to this legacy.
Try Threat Intelligence Lookup from the ANY.RUN sandbox
More than 400,000 analysts use ANY.RUN is a malware analysis sandbox worldwide. Join the community to conduct in-depth investigations into the top threats and collect detailed reports on their behavior..
The Goal of HackerGPT 2.0:
This tool utilizes ChatGPT’s advanced features and specialized training data to support a range of cybersecurity activities such as network and mobile hacking. It also helps comprehend various hacking techniques without the need for unethical methods like jailbreaking.
HackerGPT provides prompt responses to user inquiries while following ethical standards. It offers support for GPT-3 and GPT-4 models, giving users access to various hacking techniques and methodologies.
The tool can be accessed through a web browser, and there are plans to create a mobile app version later on. It provides a 14-day trial with unlimited messages and quicker response times.
HackerGPT is designed to simplify the hacking process, helping cybersecurity professionals create payloads, grasp attack vectors, and convey technical results.

Great news! HackerGPT 2.0 beta is now available at https://t.co/TW4XlVlEAZ. Plus, it's open-source on GitHub: https://t.co/BvmfTyQ5hL. Happy hacking!
This AI assistant is valuable for improving security assessments and helping technical and non-technical stakeholders understand potential risks and solutions.
Recently, HackerGPT unveiled version 2.0, and the beta can be accessed here.
How HackerGPT 2.0 Works:
When you submit a question to HackerGPT, the first step is to verify your identity and handle the query limits, which vary between free and premium users.
The system searches its vast database to locate the most pertinent information for the query. Translation is utilized for non-English inquiries to enhance the effectiveness of the database search.

When a compatible match is found, it gets incorporated into the AI’s response system. The request is securely sent to OpenAI or OpenRouter for processing, guaranteeing that no personal information is included. The answer you get will vary based on the module being utilized.
Download Free Network Security Checklist – 2024
What to know before purchasing a cloud-based, converged network security solution.

Prevent malware from infecting your network at the delivery stage by intercepting malicious files in transit from their source to the target device’s web browser.

.

HackerGPT Module: A customized version of Mixtral 8x7B with semantic search capabilities tailored to our database.
GPT-4 Turbo: The most recent innovation from OpenAI, enhanced with our specialized prompts.
Guidelines for Issues:
The “Issues” section is strictly for problems directly related to the codebase. We’ve noticed an influx of non-codebase-related issues, such as feature requests or cloud provider problems. Please consult the “Help” section under the “Discussions” tab for setup-related queries. Issues not pertinent to the codebase are typically closed promptly.
Engagement in Discussions:
We strongly encourage active participation in the “Discussions” tab! It’s an excellent platform for asking questions, exchanging ideas, and seeking assistance. Others might have the same question if you have a question.
Updating Process:
To update your local Chatbot UI repository, navigate to the root directory in your terminal and execute:
npm run update
For hosted instances, you’ll also need to run:
npm run db-push
This will apply the latest migrations to your live database.
Setting Up Locally:
To set up your own instance of Chatbot UI locally, follow these steps:

Clone the Repository:
git clone https://github.com/mckaywrigley/chatbot-ui.git

Install Dependencies:
Navigate to the root directory of your local Chatbot UI repository and run:
npm install

Install Supabase & Run Locally:
Supabase is chosen for its ease of use, open-source nature, and free tier for hosted instances. It replaces local browser storage, addressing security concerns, storage limitations, and enabling multi-modal use cases.

Install Docker: Necessary for running Supabase locally. Download it for free from the official site.
Install Supabase CLI: Use Homebrew for macOS/Linux or Scoop for Windows.
Start Supabase: Execute supabase start in your terminal at the root of the Chatbot UI repository.
Fill in Secrets: Copy the .env.local.example file to .env.local and populate it with values obtained from supabase status.

Optional Local Model Installation:
For local models, follow the instructions provided for Ollama installation.

Run the App Locally:
Finally, run npm run chat in your terminal. Your local instance should now be accessible at http://localhost:3000.
Setting Up a Hosted Instance:
To deploy your Chatbot UI instance in the cloud, follow the local setup steps here. Then, create a separate repository for your hosted instance and push your code to GitHub.
