
The Office of the National Cyber Director (ONCD) announced the Service for America Initiative, a critical component of the National Cyber Workforce and Education Strategy (NCWES) that strives to improve security education in our software workforce. The NCWES recognizes that there are challenges to building a cyber workforce and education system, including barriers to accessing cyber education and training.
Snyk Learn aims to eliminate those barriers by offering free cybersecurity education and training for everyone: students looking to gain skills they may be missing from their studies, new employees entering the workforce who need additional training, and existing employees trying to keep up with the ever-changing cyber security threats.
Snyk has made a commitment to The White House and the ONCD. We’re incredibly proud and honored to be part of the Service for America Initiative.
Snyk, a developer security company that enables developers to build secure applications and equips security teams to meet the demands of the digital world, has committed to use its learning platform, Snyk Learn, to offer 10 free hands-on training sessions every year, including a session exclusively for students to help prepare them for the workforce. Snyk has also committed to continue creating new, free content to give learners in-demand cybersecurity skills.
Snyk’s CTO, Danny Allan, had this to say about the partnership “As a leader in developer security, Snyk is honored to support the Service for America initiative. By offering free training and resources, we aim to empower the next generation of cybersecurity professionals and build a more secure digital future.”
Snyk Learn offers free security education to help developers and security teams ensure that the code shipped to production is secure. Our interactive lessons and dedicated learning paths on essential security topics, such as the OWASP Top 10, OWASP Top 10 LLM and GenAI, and our very own Snyk Top 10, cover a wide range of programming languages and vulnerabilities, allowing for a tailored learning experience. Snyk Learn also makes it easy for security teams to build a developer security education program through features like Certificates, Assignments, and Reports.
Security education is a vital skill and differentiator for developers and software engineering students entering the workforce. Let Snyk Learn help you land your dream job! This November, Snyk Learn is offering a FREE Capture the Flag 101 workshop for students, in which you will gain practical security skills that are not only essential for your studies but also highly valued by future employers. Register here to secure your spot today.
Capture the Flag 101 for Students
Get started in Capture the Flag in Snyk’s 101 Workshop for students to learn how to solve pwn and web challenges and build security skills.
