
“And then, they joined forces to provide a more secure application world.”
This could be the perfect ending to a cybersecurity film, but it’s even better—it’s the exciting reality of ZAP’s core team joining Checkmarx to deliver the best in Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST)! ZAP project leaders Simon Bennetts, Ricardo Pereira, and Rick Mitchell are joining Checkmarx to help develop the next generation of our enterprise-grade DAST solution. They will continue to support the open-source project and grow the ZAP community. This transition allows them to focus fully on advancing DAST.
What is DAST?
For those unfamiliar, DAST is a technique used to test web applications by detecting vulnerabilities while they are running. Unlike static analysis, DAST doesn’t require access to source code, making it essential in identifying security risks that emerge in live environments. This widely adopted tool helps uncover vulnerabilities that may remain hidden during static analysis.
What is ZAP?
ZAP (Zed Attack Proxy) is the world’s most widely used web application scanner, having been downloaded millions of times. This popularity is one of the reasons Checkmarx initially integrated it into its DAST solution.
Simon Bennets, Ricardo Pereira and Rick Mitchell are ZAP’s project leaders and have been contributing, guiding and reviewing any contribution to the open source project.
What does it mean for Checkmarx customers?
For users of Checkmarx DAST, our commercial offering, this collaboration means they will now benefit from the unmatched expertise of the ZAP core team. Checkmarx will continue to empower organizations to secure their applications from code to cloud. The ZAP team’s deep knowledge, gained from contributing to nearly every aspect of ZAP, adds tremendous value to Checkmarx’s already robust offering.
Checkmarx will gain unique insights and focus, enabling us to drive faster enhancements to Checkmarx DAST. The Checkmarx research team, working alongside ZAP’s leadership, will improve the accuracy of the engine, reducing false positives, and helping customers focus only on relevant findings. The team will also enhance key features like scan rules, automation, and authentication.
For customers already using our DAST solution, the usage will remain seamless. The new features developed with the ZAP core team will be integrated into our existing solution and available “out of the box” in Checkmarx DAST.
A unified view of vulnerabilities
By combining Static Application Security Testing (SAST), DAST, and API security testing into a single platform, Checkmarx provides a unified view of vulnerabilities, allowing for comprehensive analysis. This holistic approach to vulnerability management, which includes both static and dynamic analysis, along with API security, ensures better prioritization and more efficient remediation.
Integrating DAST in the Checkmarx One platform helps secure applications by detecting vulnerabilities in live environments and throughout the SDLC. Correlation between the different results adds a layer of  prioritization, making remediation more efficient. It’s a key part of our vision for managing application risk, spanning from development to runtime insights (code-to-cloud).
What does it mean for ZAP and the open source community?
Moving forward, ZAP will be known as “ZAP by Checkmarx” and will continue as a separate, community-driven project under the Apache v2 license. As Simon noted in his blog, “This is by far the biggest investment any one company has made in ZAP and ensures that ZAP will continue to thrive.”
For the open-source community, this collaboration is great news. Checkmarx  has a proven track record with open-source projects such as KICS, 2MS, CxFlow, Vorpal, ImageX and many others, contributing significantly to the community.
Personally, as the previous Product Manager for our open-source secret detection solution (2MS) and through my work with our research team identifying malicious packages, I’ve always felt a close connection to the open source community. I’m happy to have another opportunity to contribute.
The ZAP community will benefit from our company’s expertise and resources, enabling the development of key features requested by the community. ZAP by Checkmarx will continue to be a community-driven, open-source DAST solution, while our enhanced Checkmarx DAST will build upon and improve on our existing solution.
This marks a significant step in expanding our dynamic application security testing capabilities and strengths our commitment to Checkmarx DAST, with the knowledge and support of the ZAP project leaders.
If you’d like to learn more, feel free to contact us.