
Application security is an important factor currently impacting business growth. Companies are facing increasing pressure to accelerate application delivery without compromising quality and security. However, organizations, often unknowingly, release vulnerabilities into production due to different point solutions that are seemingly “good enough,” but don’t always communicate.
“Good enough” isn’t good enough​ for your enterprise. There is simply too much at stake. While successful projects can help build brand reputation and create competitive advantages, project failures can lead to market share loss, compliance issues and even customer attrition. Top tier enterprises often struggle to find partners capable of addressing these complex challenges with the right level of expertise.
We’re excited to announce the increased strategic collaboration between DXC Technology and Checkmarx! DXC Technology will now sell and support the Checkmarx One™ application security platform at its customer sites to enable enterprise-grade, comprehensive protection across the software development life cycle and help businesses find and fix software vulnerabilities faster.
This teaming combines the strengths of over 5,000 industry experts and leverages DXC’s services plus our innovative technology to influence the world of enterprise application security.   DXC runs complex global work among the largest enterprises, which highlights and reinforces Checkmarx One as the industry leading enterprise AppSec platform.  By utilizing  Checkmarx One, DXC provides a comprehensive platform across the SDLC for their customers.
DXC Technology, as a global leader in IT, data, and engineering services, brings a deep understanding of the complex security challenges faced by enterprises. They help global companies run their mission-critical systems and operations while modernizing IT, optimizing data architectures, and ensuring security and scalability across public, private and hybrid clouds.  With decades of customer expertise and an effective personalized approach to application security, DXC Technology sets the example of what it means to truly put the customer first in this industry.
This strategic collaboration emphasizes the critical role of application security today.  Together, we will work to design, build, deliver, and support holistic application security programs to:

Protect all applications and application footprints on a single platform that covers the entire software development life cycle (SDLC), from code to cloud
Reduce cost and risk while improving customer outcomes
Help organizations take applications to market faster
Tailor and customize services to match what each customer’s needs
What makes this truly unique is the shared commitment to innovation and customer-centric solutions. DXC’s expertise in services combined with our technological capabilities creates a foundation for developing solutions that are not just innovative but also deeply aligned with customers’ needs. This collaborative approach is crucial for delivering solutions that address the ever-evolving real-world challenges in enterprise security. This not only benefits DXC and Checkmarx, but also sets new benchmarks in the industry. Clients can expect measurable improvements in their security postures, reflecting our joint dedication to delivering comprehensive solutions that drive success and foster growth.
The agreement between DXC and Checkmarx marks a significant step in centering customer experience and services in enterprise application security. By combining our strengths, expertise, and commitment to innovation, our customers are poised to receive unmatched security solutions. This collaboration ensures that clients are well-equipped to face the evolving challenges of the digital world with confidence and resilience.
Request more information
