
Checkmarx has always been a pioneer and leader in SAST. It’s a cornerstone of our company heritage, and the very foundation that allowed us to mature into the industry-leading enterprise AppSec platform that we are today.
We are thrilled to announce that we have been recognized as a Leader in The Forrester Wave™: Static Application Security Testing, Q3 2023. We believe this is a testament to our commitment to continuing to provide innovative best-of-breed solutions to the world’s largest enterprises.
You can see the full report here.
According to Forrester’s report, “Checkmarx started as a SAST specialist vendor and has grown to offer pre-release testing portfolio. The new Checkmarx One cloud platform enhances the different scan types for a better together story.” This follows last quarter’s publication of The Forrester Wave™: Software Composition Analysis, Q2 2023. According to that report, “Checkmarx’s execution is impressive; it’s brought all the products under one cloud platform while also enhancing SCA and launching software supply chain security. The new platform unlocks product synergies….”
We believe that this reflects a critical market change and realization — point solutions are not enough. Enterprises need an AppSec partner that understands the challenges that they face. It’s no longer good enough to have just a strong SAST or SCA solution. Enterprises need an AppSec platform can do it all (SAST, SCA, supply chain security, API security, DAST, IaC security, and container security) and do it all well.
Forrester evaluated eleven of the top SAST providers against 26 criteria, in three different categories: Current Offering, Strategy, and Market Presence.
The report recommends that SAST customers should look for SAST solutions that:

Increase developer velocity.
Secure new and emerging technologies.
Automate the remediation process.
“Customers see fast time to value with the Checkmarx One platform,” noted the report.  We are proud to be recognized for our innovation and fast time to value.
So, who should use Checkmarx? According to the report, “Checkmarx is well suited for medium to large enterprises using emerging tech in their software development.”
Checkmarx SAST received the highest possible score (5.0) in eleven criteria:

Incremental findings
Language and framework support
Support for new development approaches
Rules and policy management (consisting of native and custom rules, policies, policy enforcement – all sub-criteria that Checkmarx received a score of 5.0)
IDE integration
Ticketing tool integration
Innovation
Roadmap
Revenue
We recently launched a new Developer Experience site, showcasing how we increase developer velocity by prioritizing teams on business impact, meeting developers where they live, and equipping developers with the tools and knowledge they need.
The Forrester Report reflects what we currently have, but there’s more to come! Join our Checkmarx One 3.0 Enterprise AppSec Platform Launch event, where we will showcase even more of the innovative technologies that we have recently launched and showcase what’s to come across our entire enterprise application security platform.