
Last year we launched AI Query Builder for SAST. It’s now improved and it’s even more secure.
Introducing Enhanced Security and Customization with Azure OpenAI
We are excited to announce that AI Query Builder is now integrated into Azure OpenAI.
This update provides our customers with Microsoft Azure’s top-tier security capabilities while also enabling the use of OpenAI’s advanced models. Our new infrastructure ensures that the code snippet is routed through a managed Checkmarx gateway to a secure and supported AI system.
This is truly the best of both worlds.
Why Azure OpenAI?
By using Azure OpenAI, users get the following benefits:

Security: Azure OpenAI leverages Microsoft Azure’s security features, ensuring a fortified environment for AI-powered applications. It also ensures network isolation and robust security measures, safeguarding sensitive data and maintaining high standards of data protection.  This means that Azure OpenAI Service is fully controlled by Microsoft. Microsoft hosts the OpenAI models in Microsoft’s Azure environment and the Service does NOT interact with any services operated by OpenAI (e.g. ChatGPT, or the OpenAI API) and therefore is not used to improve OpenAI models or any Microsoft or third-party products and services.

Enterprise focus: Specifically tailored for business needs, it offers advanced conversational AI capabilities to facilitate more efficient and effective interactions.
What are the benefits of its integration with Checkmarx?

Managed security gateway: All AI queries are routed through a managed Checkmarx gateway. Our new infrastructure routes through a managed Checkmarx gateway before connecting to Azure AI. This extra layer of security ensures future services and model updates.

Future security services: This new setup paves the way for additional and future security services, ensuring our customers benefit from any new services and  advancements.

Seamless access to AI benefits: The integration allows for seamless access to AI model changes without compromising on security.
Checkmarx AI Query Builder: Making Custom Queries Accessible
The Checkmarx AI Query Builder for SAST enables users to harness AI to automatically generate new custom queries or modify existing ones. This simplifies the process of tailoring the SAST solution to specific application needs.
“AI Query Builder builds on the custom query capability, allowing AI to help any AppSec team write new or edit existing custom queries. This allows every organization to tune SAST more easily for your applications, increasing accuracy and minimizing false positives and false negatives. AI Query Builder is an expert in the ins and outs of CxQL. You no longer need to be an expert in building a query when an AI can do the work for you! With this feature, a simple prompt such as, “Help me generate a Checkmarx query that will detect an authentication issue,” will immediately generate a new custom query.”
The AI Query Builder has also gotten a UI refresh, along with the rest of the Query Editor and the Checkmarx One platform, further improving the user experience.
Why use AI to write queries?

Enhanced efficiency: Saves time and effort by allowing developers to generate tailored queries quickly, reducing the manual workload involved in query development.

Start now: CxQL is a proprietary query language. While it’s easy to learn, by using AI, developers can get started immediately without taking the time to learn a new language.

User-friendly: This tool enables all Checkmarx One users to finetune their SAST solution without needing expert query writing knowledge. Simply provide a prompt and the AI will generate a custom query tailored specifically to your needs.
Get Started Today
Still not on Checkmarx One? Contact us to discuss how to get Checkmarx One and take advantage of AI Query Builder today.
