Infrastructure as Code (IAC) has become a driver in the evolution of software development –  making it faster and more agile with a 0.8 billion dollar market in 2022 and projected to reach 2.3 billion dollars by 2027. These days, developers provision cloud infrastructure through code, and IaC can help them simplify operations, improve scalability, and speed up deployment. However, despite these advantages, using IaC brings a breadth of new security challenges that must be considered (and protected against) by any organization that wants to protect its cloud environment.
In this blog, I’ll discuss the concept of Infrastructure as Code (IaC) and its security implications. We’ll explore the common security challenges faced by organizations implementing IaC and discuss strategies for securing their infrastructure through IaC security measures.
What is Infrastructure as Code (IaC) Security
IaC manages the configuration of cloud infrastructure through automated code, ensuring consistency when deploying applications. Tools like Terraform and CloudFormation automate tasks, simplifying configuration and deployment. IaC security focuses on addressing vulnerabilities and misconfigurations in code-based provisioning (with IaC templates) to prevent security breaches from compromising data integrity.
Types of IaC: Declarative vs. Imperative Approaches
Two main approaches govern IaC implementation: declarative and imperative. Declarative IaC defines the desired system state, without detailing the steps to achieve it, while the system handles the process of achieving and maintaining the desired state. An example of a declarative tool is Terraform. Imperative IaC specifies the commands required to achieve the desired configuration. For example, AWS SDK. Each approach presents its unique security challenges, underscoring the need for security measures throughout the development and deployment process.
Example of Declarative IaC using terraform
terraform {version = “0.11.13”}
provider “aws” {
region = “eu-central-1”
}
resource “aws_s3_bucket” “your_new_bucket” {
bucket = “my-first-website-cloud-native-website”
acl    = “public-read”
website {
index_document = “index.html”
}
Example of imperative IaC
Simple line of code to create an S3 bucket with the AWS CLI tool
aws s3api create-bucket –bucket my-first-website-cloud-native-website –region eu-central-1
IaC: Challenges
1. The declarative approach: The declarative approach must know whether the infrastructure already exists, to know whether to create it or not. One of the biggest challenges is the loss of control over individual provisioning steps, this approach is less suitable for small fixes, potentially complicating and slowing down processes.
2. The imperative approach: The imperative approach has no idea if the infrastructure exists. The imperative example also cannot be easily re-run and doesn’t include the ability to update or delete.The most significant challenge introduced by this approach is the need for advanced programming skills, specifically for teams new to DevOps. Due to the explicitness of the imperative approach, scripts are less editable and that results in less flexibility due to a varied outcome across environments. Errors in one step can disrupt the entire process.
3. Credential/Secret Disclosure: Sensitive information, like access keys, may be mistakenly hardcoded and wind up in version control systems, risking exposure. This occurs when sensitive information such as passwords, API keys, or other types of credentials are inadvertently exposed in plain text within code repositories or configuration files. Such exposure could result in data loss, financial liabilities, or even reputational damage to the organization.
4. Misconfiguration: Misconfigurations in IaC templates pose a serious security threat. Misconfigurations that can lead to exploitable vulnerabilities include improper access controls, overly permissive networks, and insecure storage settings. These challenges are compounded by the imperative approach, which demands advanced programming skills and lacks flexibility which can lead to unauthorized data access, service interruptions, or data breaches.
5. Elevated Privileges: IaC automation often relies on high-privilege identities, making them lucrative targets for attackers for example granting overly permissive permissions to a service account or user role, allowing it to access sensitive resources or perform actions beyond its intended scope, which can lead to security breaches or data leaks.
6. CI/CD Infrastructure: CI/CD systems, vital for deploying IaC changes, face security risks such as weak authentication and authorization. Without proper access controls, unauthorized users may access sensitive resources or execute malicious actions, causing security breaches or deployment disruptions.
Securing IaC: Best Practices

Declarative programming is the favored method in IaC, it defines the desired end-state, ensuring repeatable execution and adaptability to configuration drift, unlike the imperative programming method that requires scripting expertise, as it needs commands for each provisioning step, offering precise control for fine-tuning, optimization, and addressing software specific needs.
IaC template Analysis: IaC template analysis tooling involves leveraging application security testing tools specifically designed to scan IaC source code for potential security vulnerabilities – including sensitive values such as passwords, API keys, or other credentials. These tools utilize static analysis techniques to parse through the codebase, identifying patterns or syntax that indicate the presence of sensitive information. For example, they may look for strings that match known patterns of API keys or AWS access keys within Terraform or CloudFormation templates. By flagging these instances during the scanning process, developers and security teams can promptly address and remediate such exposures before they lead to security incidents.
Policy Engine: A policy engine within the context of IaCin volves implementing a robust set of granular policies that dictate the configuration and behavior of cloud resources provisioned through code. These policies are typically defined based on security best practices, compliance requirements, and organizational standards. The policy engine acts as a centralized control mechanism, allowing administrators to enforce rules and constraints on various aspects of cloud infrastructure provisioning, such as network configurations, access controls, encryption settings, and resource tagging. For example, policies may specify that all storage buckets must be encrypted at rest. By implementing policy-based controls, organizations can reduce the risk of misconfigurations and unauthorized access.
Securing CI/CD Pipeline: Securing the Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) pipeline involves implementing a multi-faceted approach to protect the entire workflow from potential security threats. Role-based access controls (RBAC) are essential for ensuring that only authorized individuals have permission to view, modify, or execute pipeline tasks. Additionally, isolating the CI/CD infrastructure from other systems and environments helps mitigate the risk of unauthorized access or tampering. Securing the CI/CD pipeline requires a combination of proactive measures, including RBAC, infrastructure isolation, and continuous monitoring, to safeguard the integrity and reliability of the software delivery process.
Credential and Secret Management: Securing credentials and secrets is critical when implementing Infrastructure as Code (IaC). Organizations must implement processes and tools to prevent exposure of sensitive information in version control systems and other repositories. This means using secure storage methods like encrypted key vaults or reliable credential management systems to protect this information from unauthorized access. Using environment-specific config files can also help reduce the chance of accidental exposure by keeping sensitive data separate from the IaC templates. Regular audits and automated scans are essential for promptly spotting and fixing any instances of exposed credentials.
Misconfigurations: To address this challenge, organizations must implement rigorous validation processes and automated checks to ensure that IaC templates adhere to security best practices. Additionally, leveraging infrastructure security scanning tools can help identify and remediate misconfigurations before they are deployed into production environments. Embracing the declarative programming approach has its advantages as well, by defining the desired end-state and automated provisioning, it inherently reduces the likelihood of misconfigurations by minimizing manual intervention and human errors, providing a proactive solution to the misconfiguration challenge.
Our Approach to IaC Security
Checkmarx provides a comprehensive IaC security solution that is integrated into the Checkmarx One platform correlating data from the entire software development life cycle (SDLC). This enables the platform to prioritize risks based on context from the different security engines, providing developers with actionable insights and allowing them to focus on addressing critical vulnerabilities efficiently.

IaC template code Analysis: Checkmarx’s IaC Template analysis tool integrates with the developers’ environment to automatically scan IaC templates for vulnerabilities and misconfigurations, providing actionable insights to developers and security teams. By identifying security issues early in the coding stage of the development lifecycle, organizations can proactively mitigate risks and ensure the integrity of their infrastructure.
Policy Enforcement: Checkmarx enables organizations to enforce preventive security policies and stop the build process at the coding stage preventing vulnerable or misconfigured code from making it into production ensuring compliance with industry regulations and internal security standards. Customizable policies allow organizations to tailor their security controls to meet their specific requirements and mitigate potential threats effectively.
Seamless Integration: Checkmarx seamlessly integrates into existing workflows, ensuring minimal disruption to development processes. Its compatibility with popular IDEs enables developers to manually scan templates during development, while CI/CD integrations automate scans later in the process. This streamlined approach ensures security checks occur at every stage of the development lifecycle, enhancing overall security posture.
Education and Training: Education and Training: Checkmarx provides educational resources and training programs to help organizations build and maintain a strong security culture. By educating developers and security professionals on best practices for IaC security, Checkmarx empowers organizations to proactively address security challenges and protect their cloud environments effectively.
Final Thoughts
As organizations embrace Infrastructure as Code, prioritizing security becomes imperative to prevent potential vulnerabilities and misconfigurations. With Checkmarx, organizations can embark on their IaC journey with confidence, knowing that their infrastructure remains protected against potential threats. Infrastructure as Code security is not a choice; it’s a strategic imperative. By embracing a proactive approach to security and leveraging cutting-edge solutions like Checkmarx, organizations can unlock the full potential of IaC while protecting their assets against threats.