We are proud to announce that we are recognized with a Customers’ Choice distinction in the 2024 Peer Insights “Voice of the Customer”: Application Security Testing on Gartner® Peer Insights™. A Customers’ Choice vendor meets or exceeds both the market average Overall Experience and the market average User Interest and Adoption.
We are even more proud to have been recognized with this distinction for the past six years – making us the only AST provider to be named a Customers’ Choice every year since the first Voice of the Customer for Application Security Testing report in 2019. In addition, this year Checkmarx (4.8/5) rated higher than Snyk (4.7/5) and OpenText (4.7/5) in Support Experience in the Application Security Testing Market based on 120 reviews on Gartner Peer Insights™ as of July 2024.
Hear what our reviewers had to say on Gartner Peer Insights*:
“Checkmarx One has been an invaluable tool in strengthening our software development security practices, giving us confidence that our code is robust and secure. The combination of accuracy, efficiency and ease of use has greatly improved our ability to proactively and efficiently manage security risks.”* – IT Security and Risk Management Manager
“The experience from research to procurement was seamless. The features Checkmarx offered were a clear winner.”  - Cybersecurity Governance & Risk Manager
This distinction is a particularly big deal for everyone at Checkmarx because it comes from customers — who are the reason we do what we do. The Gartner Peer Insights Voice of the Customer report recognizes vendors in this market based on reviews from verified end users. Vendors placed in the upper-right quadrant of the “Voice of the Customer” graphic are recognized with the Gartner Peer Insights Customers’ Choice distinction, denoted with a Customers’ Choice badge. The recognized vendors meet or exceed both the market average Overall Experience and the market average User Interest and Adoption.
The “Voice of the Customer” is a document that synthesizes Gartner Peer Insights reviews into insights for buyers of technology and services. This aggregated peer perspective, along with the individual detailed reviews, is complementary to Gartner expert research and can play a key role in your buying process. Read more reviews for Checkmarx here.
READY TO LEARN MORE?
Download a complimentary copy of the Voice of the Customer for Application Security Testing or visit us online for additional information on Checkmarx One.
To all our customers who submitted reviews, thank you! You’re the reason we are here, and your feedback helps us improve our products to fit your needs.
If you have a Checkmarx story to share, we encourage you to join the Gartner Peer Insights crowd and weigh in here.
Gartner, Voice of the Customer for Application Security Testing, Peer Contributors, 27 September 2024.  
*Reviews have been edited to account for errors and readability.
GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark, and the GARTNER PEER INSIGHTS CUSTOMERS’ CHOICE badge and PEER INSIGHTS are trademarks and service marks, of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and are used herein with permission. All rights reserved. 

Gartner Peer Insights content consists of the opinions of individual end users based on their own experiences with the vendors listed on the platform, should not be construed as statements of fact, nor do they represent the views of Gartner or its affiliates. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in this content nor makes any warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this content, about its accuracy or completeness, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. This graphic was published by Gartner, Inc. as part of a larger research document and should be evaluated in the context of the entire document. The Gartner document is available upon request from Checkmarx.