The Model Context Protocol (MCP) Steering Committee has announced the soft launch of the official MCP Registry, now available in preview at registry.modelcontextprotocol.io. The registry is designed as the canonical source of truth for MCP servers, providing a single upstream dataset for both public and private subregistries to build on.
“This is an initiative we have been working on as the canonical source of truth and one-stop publication stop for MCP server authors,” Toby Padilla, Registry Maintainer and Head of MCP at GitHub, commented on LinkedIn.
“The goal is for there to be many downstream registries (stay tuned for more there 😁) and for this to serve as the source of truth, vs the many ad-hoc registries we see today. This is very much a build in public launch to start getting feedback and contributions.”
First Public Milestone#
Earlier this year, MCP maintainers announced their intention to build a centralized registry. That effort has now reached its first public milestone with the preview launch. The project is open source, with both the registry implementation and its API specification available for community contribution.
Maintainers caution that the preview remains unstable and does not provide durability guarantees. Breaking changes may occur before the registry reaches general availability.
How the Registry Fits into the Ecosystem#
The MCP Registry acts like an app store for MCP servers, giving clients a single place to discover and connect to them. The project has two main components:

The MCP Registry spec: An open API specification that allows anyone to implement a registry.
The Official MCP Registry: A hosted service at registry.modelcontextprotocol.io that acts as the authoritative repository for publicly available MCP servers.
Server creators publish once, and all clients, aggregators, and marketplaces can pull from the same canonical dataset. Entries are represented in a standardized server.json format that describes a server’s identity, packages, runtime, and metadata. This ensures consistency across discovery, installation, and execution workflows.
Unlike package registries such as npm or PyPI, the MCP Registry is a metaregistry. It does not host source code or binaries. Instead, it points to packages hosted elsewhere, for example:

MCP Registry: “weather-server v1.2.0 is at npm:weather-mcp”
npm Registry: the actual weather-mcp package code
Subregistries can build on this foundation. Some may act as public marketplaces that add curation or ratings, while others may be private registries within enterprises. These subregistries typically run ETL jobs against the official registry, adding their own annotations or filters. (ETL refers to the common data pipeline process of extracting information, transforming it with additional context, and loading it into another system.)
A key design principle of the MCP Registry is to support downstream implementations. Public registries may take the form of client-specific “marketplaces” that add their own filtering or presentation layers. Enterprises with strict security requirements can also build private registries that benefit from shared schemas and tooling.
This layered model preserves flexibility while reducing the fragmentation that has historically made MCP servers difficult to discover.
Who's Behind the Official MCP Registry?#
The project began as a grassroots initiative in early 2025 with contributions from PulseMCP, Goose, Block, GitHub, and Anthropic. Key maintainers include David Soria Parra, Adam Jones, Tadas Antanavicius, and Toby Padilla, supported by a growing group of contributors from across the MCP community.
The registry is community moderated, with contributors able to flag spam, impersonation, or malicious entries. Registry maintainers can denylist offending servers, providing a baseline defense mechanism while leaving downstream registries free to apply their own criteria.
Shaping the MCP Ecosystem#
The launch of the MCP Registry is a major step toward making MCP a sustainable foundation for AI-driven applications. By standardizing how servers are published and discovered, the registry offers developers and organizations a shared layer for building more reliable, context-aware AI systems.
Developers can add their servers to the registry by following the Adding Servers guide, while client authors can begin consuming data with the Accessing MCP Registry Data guide. Feedback and contributions are welcomed on the GitHub repository.