
	   


The Python Package Index (PyPI) registry has removed several Python packages this week aimed at stealing users' credit card numbers, Discord tokens, and granting code execution capabilities to attackers.

These malicious packages were published under three different PyPI accounts and are estimated to have scored over 30,000 downloads put together, according to the researchers' report.

Malware steals credit card numbers, browser files, Discord tokens

This week, security researchers Andrey Polkovnichenko, Omer Kaspi and Shachar Menashe at JFrog have analyzed several malicious Python packages that they caught on the PyPI registry.

These packages are as follows, divided into categories:

Package name
			Maintainer
			Payload
		noblesse
			xin1111
			Discord token stealer, Credit card stealer (Windows-based)
		genesisbot
			xin1111
			Same as noblesse
		aryi
			xin1111
			Same as noblesse
		suffer
			suffer
			Same as noblesse , obfuscated by PyArmor
		noblesse2
			suffer
			Same as noblesse
		noblessev2
			suffer
			Same as noblesse
		pytagora
			leonora123
			Remote code injection
		pytagora2
			leonora123
			Same as pytagora
		Most of the packages steal Discord tokens, credit card numbers, and web-browser files, although some provide attackers with code execution abilities.

All of the packages in the list use simple obfuscation techniques, akin to those used by most novice Python malware, say the researchers.

The Python code is base64-encoded and passed to eval() after being decoded.


An example excerpt from the noblesse2 package showing simple obfuscation (JFrog)

However, "the packages aryi and suffer were obfuscated using PyArmor, suggesting that malware developers are experimenting with different obfuscation methods," state the researchers in their report.

As seen by BleepingComputer, the noblesse malware family falsely advertises itself as optimization packages, with messages like "This Module Optimises your PC For Python," both inside Python packages, and on the PyPI pages (now removed):


noblesse malware falsely touts itself as a code optimizer (BleepingComputer)

Different packages under the noblesse family obtain the user's Discord authentication tokens and web-browser files that store credit card numbers.

Such credit card numbers are often saved in web browsers by users aiming to use them later via "autocomplete."


Credit cards stored in web browser for later use via "autocomplete" (JFrog)

"An authentication token allows the attacker to impersonate the user that originally held the token (similar to HTTP session cookies)."

"The payload stealing the tokens is based on the infamous dTGPG (Discord Token Grabber Payload Generator) payload."

"This is a generator tool that was never released publicly, but the payloads (the individualized token grabbers) are shared publicly, and some examples were also uploaded to GitHub," state the researchers.

The Discord token stealers are similar in their functionality (but not the code) to npm Discord stealers BleepingComputer has previously reported on.

Not your usual Pythagorean theorem

Yet another strand of malware loaded by some of these packages was aimed at reconnaissance activities to gather system information.

Although these packages have now been removed from PyPI, as a security researcher at Sonatype, I was able to peek inside their archived copies stored by Sonatype's automated malware detection systems.

This particular family of noblesse is designated to capture screenshots, Windows version and license key information, IP address, computer name/user name, etc., and upload these pieces of information to a Discord Webhook:


Screenshot capturing and info-stealing capabilities inside noblesse2 (BleepingComputer)

The "pytagora" package, on the other hand, contains the Pythagorean theorem formula, along with some base64 payload snuck in.

The payload when executed attempts to connect to a private IP address on TCP port 9009 and "listens" for incoming commands.

The reasons behind the attacker's choice of a private IP address (172.16.60.80) or what the IP represents are not clear.


pytagora package with encoded (left) base64 payload, which when decoded (right) connects to a private IP address
Source: BleepingComputer

Another day, another malicious package

Over the last few months, open-source software registries including, npm, PyPI and RubyGems have persistently been hit with malware or unwanted content.

This report from JFrog comes just a few weeks after malicious cryptomining packages were caught by Sonatype on PyPI.

And, just this month, following an advisory from ReversingLabs, npm removed packages aimed at stealing Chrome browser credentials via legitimate password recovery tools.

With a massive surge in attackers targeting software registries and developers' code, the problem isn't expected to go away anytime soon.

A report from the European Union Agency for Cybersecurity (ENISA) on software supply-chain security released today states, 66% of attacks are focused on the supplier's code.

Emerging supply chain attacks in 2021 are expected to increase by four times compared to those reported in 2020.

"Such new trend stresses the need for policymakers and the cybersecurity community to act now."

"This is why novel protective measures to prevent and respond to potential supply chain attacks in the future while mitigating their impact need to be introduced urgently," states ENISA.

Note: The name of one of the malicious packages is actually "aryi" as checked by BleepingComputer prior to publishing, contrary to "are" specified in the researchers' report. "are" is a legitimate PyPI project.

	   
           
          
            Related Articles:
	     Ultralytics AI model hijacked to infect thousands with cryptominerGitHub projects targeted with malicious commits to frame researcherMalicious Rspack, Vant packages published using stolen NPM tokensMalicious PyPI package with 37,000 downloads steals AWS keysNew details reveal how hackers hijacked 35 Google Chrome extensions
	  
 
	  