
	   


A JavaScript library that scores over two million downloads every week has been injected with malicious code for stealing coins from a cryptocurrency wallet.

The affected package is Event-Stream, built to simplify working with Node.js streaming modules and it is available through the npmjs.com repository.

Although the malicious code was discovered last week, researchers were able to determine its purpose recently, when they managed to decrypt and deobfuscate it.

Rogue dev takes over

They found that earlier versions of the library that are still in use include a new component, 'flatmap-stream' version 0.1.1, that contains dangerous code. It was introduced three months ago after Dominic Tarr, the original developer of Event-Stream, gave up the library and passed it to another developer, right9ctrl.

It appears that Right9ctrl committed the malicious changes as soon as they received access to the popular library, and then published the updated version.

"He [right9ctrl] emailed me and said he wanted to maintain the module, so I gave it to him. I don't get anything from maintaining this module, and I don't even use it anymore and haven't for years," Tarr said, adding that he no longer had publishing rights for the library on npmjs.com.

Tarr made the mistake to transfer the rights but the repository remained under his username.

Bitcoin wallets in sight

According to users who analyzed the code, the targets are libraries associated with Copay Bitcoin wallet app for mobile and desktop.

The goal of the rogue developer was to steal wallet files as the malicious code executed successfully when a package used by Copay was in use.

The injected code tries to steal the bitcoins in the wallet and then attempts to connect to copayapi.host and to the IP address 111.90.151.134 in Malaysia.


Malicious code with instructions to connect to copayapi.host

The Event-Stream library continues to be available from right9ctrl via the npm manager but it does not present any risk. It appears that the rogue developer pushed an update to version 4.0.1 two months ago without the malicious code.

Users on Github say that right9ctrl did this in a bid to hide their tracks, as most developers would tie their projects to a major version of the library but not update explicitly to it. This way, the backdoor would still be present in their projects but the latest revision of the package is clean.

At least one developer reported that the flatmap-stream package is no longer available from npm.

As for Copay, version 5.2.2 has emerged without the two troublesome JavaScript libraries.

	   
           
          
            Related Articles:
	     European Space Agency's official store hacked to steal payment cardsMalicious Rspack, Vant packages published using stolen NPM tokensMalicious Microsoft VSCode extensions target devs, crypto community390,000 WordPress accounts stolen from hackers in supply chain attackSolana Web3.js library backdoored to steal secret, private keys
	  
 
	  