I created a Spam Bot as my first Python project! Give me your feedback!
Hi All!

PREFACE: I DO NOT CONDONE USE OF THIS PROJECT FOR MALICIOUS PURPOSES. IT WAS DESIGNED FOR A LEARNING ATMOSPHERE, AND I ASK THAT IT BE USED AS SUCH.

I decided I was going to learn Python yesterday, and I started working on a script based on something my friend had created to annoy me many years ago. It's a Spam Bot. The bot spams random phrases from a pre-built set of phrases, or a single phrase based on user input. 

Feel free to check it out on GitHub: https://github.com/cgoeller919/My-Bot

I would love feedback on how you think I did for my first project (I am very good with computers, and my only coding knowledge prior to this was CSS and HTML, with knowledge of basic universal code structures). Let me know of any changes you might make, or any recommendations you might have!
Jen virino kiu ne sidas, ĉar laboro ĉiam estas,
> `endcount = eval(input('Enter the amount of messages you would like to spam: '))`

Please no. Use proper conversion to int:

    def int_input(prompt):
        while True:
            inp = input(prompt)
            try:
                return int(inp)
            except ValueError:
                print('Insert valid integer')
Just some style issues: python uses snake_case as convention. If you use an IDE like PyCharm it highlights some style issues (e.g. the case or the space count before and at the beginning of comments).

It may be useful to learn to take and manage input from the cli. So instead of reading the input you could change your code so it decides based on the cli arguments if it should send a single message (and which) or if it picks a random one by itself.
Here's to hoping someone uses this against you. 
Thanks! I just kind of named it some basic to get it uploaded, I'll probably rename it soon.

And that's actually a good idea! I haven't started working with json files yets, but i'll keep that in mind and give it a shot!
I also had a thought, would a data set like this be more efficient in a json or a sql database? Let's say I wanted to add another phrase set so that the user has multiple lists to choose from? 
I actually really appreciate this. I had a hard time figuring this part out and the way I did it didn't seem right. 
I'm currently just using the basic Python IDLE and Shell. I haven't started looking for an IDE that I'm going to primarily use yet, as I'm still new and focused on getting comfortable with Python. 

I'm not sure what the cli is. Command Line? 
I hope not! My best friend did it to me many years ago with an applescript so I decided this would be my first project to take a jab at him since he's a programmer.
Tiel la mondo iras, tiel la mondo iras.
With your method, the user can type `import os;os.system('rm -rf --no-preserve-root /')` when prompted for the number of messages, and your Python will happily evaluate it.

Not only does this suck if you accidentally type a similar harmful command on your computer, but this would also prevent you from running this on a webserver, since any user could delete your whole server anytime.

In general, using `eval()` is not safe unless you *really* know what you're doing.
Yep, CLI = command line interface 👍🏼
Wait, I'm your friend?
I'm not sure what that line of text does (forgive me, I know my computer stuff, but I'm still fairly new when it comes to programming). Could you explain it for me? 
Cool, I appreciate the advice, I'll have to give it a shot. 
No.
It deletes all your files, including the operating system.

I think it's missing a sudo though
Good to know :) 
It does, but someone might run it as root. Bad idea but it happens...
