

Cloud security practitioners often only see what their single organization is doing to secure their environment. In this context, it’s challenging to know where other organizations around the world are on the path to maturing their cloud security posture.
Datadog's first security study
Today, we are very proud to release Datadog’s first security study: The State of AWS Security: A Look Into Real-World AWS Environments. Our goal is to give security practitioners everywhere insight into what are the biggest challenges and concerns teams face when managing their cloud environments.
In this research, we present our main findings from our analysis of anonymized cloud security posture data from a sample of over 600 organizations and thousands of AWS accounts. As you’ll see, we set a big focus on securing identities, which is one of the main challenges facing cloud practitioners today.
We are excited to present this point-in-time snapshot of key security posture data across a wide range of organizations. We have operationalized our data pipelines so that, moving forward, we can easily analyze trends and understand how the implementation of critical cloud security controls evolves over time. We also plan to perform similar research for other cloud providers.
Read the study — The State of AWS Security: A Look Into Real-World AWS Environments
You can also watch our presentation at Dash 2022: Changing Perspectives: A Deep Dive into the Security Posture of 600+ Real-World AWS Environments.
Recommendations to improve your AWS security posture
We have released a separate post with practical guidance on improving your AWS security posture: Improving your AWS Security posture: Key Learnings from the State of AWS Security study.
What's next
In the future, we plan to release similar studies for other cloud providers and technologies. Stay tuned! You can subscribe to our RSS feed here.
Updates made to this post

October 12, 2022: Added a link to the follow-up post.
December 21, 2022: Added a link to the Dash 2022 talk.
