How 140k NuGet, NPM, and PyPi Packages Were Used to Spread Phishing Links | Checkmarx.com Solutions Products Checkmarx One Platform Industry-leading enterprise cloud-native AppSec platform SAST Static Application Security Testing SCA Software Composition Analysis SSCS Supply Chain Security API Security Secures APIs during development DAST Dynamic Application Security Testing IaC Security Secure Infrastructure as Code Codebashing Secure code training Services AppSec Services AppSec Accelerator AppSec Maturity Assessment Public Sector Financial Services Developer Hub KICS AWS and Checkmarx team up for seamless, integrated security analysis. Tell Me More Why Checkmarx Why Checkmarx Developer Experience Why We’re the Right Choice Customer Stories Compliance and Certifications Integrations Languages We Support Solutions For We’ve been a Leader in the Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Application Security Testing six years in a row. Get the Report Company Company About Us Culture and Careers (We’re Hiring!) Checkmarx Newsroom Our Leadership Investors Awards and Industry Recognition Upcoming Events Help us make code, and the world, safer. It’s a job and a mission. Explore Open Roles Developer Experience Partners Careers Community Videos Articles Comics Lessons Tech Blog Community Events Resources Webinars Ebooks & Whitepapers Videos Solution Briefs Customer Stories Documentation Checkmarx University All Resources Blog Contact Chat With Us Call Us Office Locations Support Portal Partner Portal Chinese English French German Japanese Korean Spanish Request a Demo Search START TYPING AND PRESS ENTER TO SEARCH Solutions Products Checkmarx One Platform SAST SCA SSCS API Security DAST IaC Security CodeBashing Services AppSec Services AppSec Accelerator AppSec Program Methodology Public Sector Financial Services Developer Hub KICS Why Checkmarx Why Checkmarx Developer Experience Why We’re the Right Choice Customer Stories Compliance and Certifications Integrations Languages We Support Solutions For Developers AppSec Leadership Company Company About Us Culture And Careers (We’re Hiring!) Checkmarx Newsroom Our Leadership Investors Awards and Industry Recognition Upcoming Events Developer Experience Partners Partnering with Checkmarx Partnership Overview Reseller Program MSSP Program Technology Partner Program Tech Partnerships & Integrations Become a Checkmarx Partner Find a Partner Find a Checkmarx Partner Already a Checkmarx Partner? Partner Portal Partner Hub – Learn from other Partners Partner Academy Careers Resources Webinars E-books & WhitePapers Videos Customer Stories Solution Briefs Documentation Checkmarx University All Resources Blog Contact Us Chat With Us Call Us Office Locations Support Portal Partner Portal Request a Demo Global Chinese English French German Japanese Korean Spanish Search Blog How 140k NuGet, NPM, and PyPi Packages Were Used to Spread Phishing Links By Jossef Harush Co-authored by Illustria Research and Aviad Gershon December 14, 2022 What Happened? Joint research of Checkmarx and Illustria resulted with an anomaly discovered in the open-source ecosystem Over 144,000 packages were published to NuGet, NPM, and PyPi by the same threat actors Investigation revealed a new attack vector – attackers spam open-source ecosystem with packages containing links to phishing campaigns All packages and related user accounts were most likely created using automation The packages share similar project description and auto-generated names The threat actors refer to retail websites with referral ids to benefit the threat actors with referral rewards Our teams disclosed the findings in this report and most of the packages were unlisted Working Together, Keeping the Ecosystem Safe The ongoing battle against software supply chain attackers continues to be challenging as attackers constantly adapt and surprise with new techniques. In order to better defend against these threats, Checkmarx and Illustria have joined forces and combined their research efforts. This collaboration led to the discovery of a significant anomaly in the NuGet, NPM, and PyPi ecosystems. NuGet Anomalies Our technology collects and indexes evidence related to packages from all open-source ecosystems, allowing us to query historical data for new insights and discover suspicious activities through a process we call “retro-hunting.” A few months ago, we discovered an anomaly in the NuGet ecosystem when we cross-referenced new information with our databases. Clusters of packages had been published in large quantities to the NuGet package manager. Further investigation revealed that the packages were part of a new attack vector, with attackers spamming the open-source ecosystem with packages containing links to phishing campaigns. In this situation, it seems that automated processes were used to create over 135,000 packages in NuGet and related user accounts. The descriptions for these packages contained links to phishing campaigns. Our teams alerted the NuGet security team, and they replied that the packages were unlisted to protect users of the open-source ecosystem. After investigating the NuGet anomaly with the creation of over 135,000 packages and related user accounts, we discovered that similar activity had also taken place in NPM and PyPi. A total of 144,294 phishing-related packages were detected, all of which were created by the same threat actor. Of these, 136,258 were published on NuGet, 212 on NPM, and 7,824 on PyPi Automated Packages and User Accounts The large scale of the NuGet package publication and the patterns in the user accounts suggest that the process was automated. Many of the usernames followed the pattern “<a-z><1900-2022>”, and many users had published the same number of packages. Our team disclosed this information to the NuGet security team, who unlisted the packages from NuGet’s search results. While the packages are no longer easily accessible, their web pages are still available on NuGet’s website, and the packages can still be downloaded from these pages. Regarding the other ecosystems, the packages were taken down. Phishing Sites in Package Description The attackers used a large number of packages with names related to hacking, cheats, and free resources to promote their phishing campaign. Some of the package names included “free-steam-codes-generator,” “yalla-ludo-diamond-hack,” “a3-still-alive-hack-diamonds”, and “project-makeover-hack-gems.” These names were designed to lure users into downloading the packages and clicking on the links to the phishing sites. The descriptions of all the packages we found contained links to phishing sites. The threat actors behind this campaign likely wanted to improve the search engine optimization (SEO) of their phishing sites by linking them to legitimate websites like NuGet. This highlights the need to be cautious when downloading packages and only to use trusted sources. The messages in these packages attempt to entice readers into clicking links with promises of game cheats, free resources, and increased followers and likes on social media platforms like TikTok and Instagram. The phishing campaign linked to over 65,000 unique URLs on 90 domains, with each domain hosting multiple phishing webpages under different paths. The deceptive webpages are well-designed and, in some cases, even include fake interactive chats that appear to show users receiving the cheats or followers they were promised. These chats will even respond to messages if the reader chooses to participate, but these are all automated and fabricated. This highlights the need for caution when interacting with links in packages and the importance of only using trusted sources. The websites included built-in fake flow that pretended to process data and generate the promised “gifts.” However, this process most of the time failed, and the victim was then asked to enter a “human verification” phase that involved multiple sites referring the user from one to another. These sites included surveys that asked the user to respond to various questions, leading to additional surveys or eventually to legitimate eCommerce websites. This shows the importance of being cautious when interacting with links in packages and only using trusted sources. Referrals Rewards While investigating the phishing websites, we noticed that some of them redirected to eCommerce websites with referral IDs. For example, one of our experiments resulted in being redirected to AliExpress, one of the world’s largest online retail platforms. Like many other retail websites, AliExpress offers a referral program that rewards members for referring new customers to the platform. If the threat actors refer their victims to AliExpress and they make a purchase, the threat actors’ account will receive a referral reward in the form of a coupon or store credit. This highlights the potential financial gain for threat actors who engage in phishing campaigns like this one. Conclusion These attackers invested in automation in order to poison the entire NuGet, PyPi, and NPM ecosystem with 144,294 packages. This allowed them to publish a large number of packages in a short period of time, making it difficult for the different security teams to identify and remove the packages quickly. Automating the process also allowed the attackers to create a large number of user accounts, making it difficult to trace the source of the attack. This shows the sophistication and determination of these attackers, who were willing to invest significant resources in order to carry out this campaign. The battle against threat actors poisoning our software supply chain ecosystem continues to be a challenging one, as attackers constantly adapt and surprise with new and unexpected techniques. In order to better defend against these threats, Checkmarx and Illustria have teamed up to combine their research efforts. This collaboration led to the discovery of a significant anomaly in the NuGet ecosystem. By working together, we can stay one step ahead of attackers and keep the ecosystem safe. We believe this kind of collaboration is crucial in the fight against software supply chain attacks, and we will continue working together to protect the open-source ecosystem. List of Packages The scale of this phishing campaign is significant, and you are welcome to download the full dataset hosted on GitHub Gist (11mb) This will allow you to further analyze the data and gain a better understanding of the scope and nature of the attack. If you would like access to the original metadata or samples from this phishing campaign, please feel free to send an email to [email protected] . Our team will be happy to provide you with the information you need. IOC In total, we analyzed over 65,000 unique URLs (click to get the full list) , which we were able to reduce to approximately 90 domains. (A link to the full list is provided.) This shows the scale of the phishing campaign and the effort that was required to identify and analyze all of the URLs involved. tinybit[.]cc gamecoins[.]codes gamecodeclaim[.]com gamesapp[.]pro playersworld[.]xyz lucymods[.]com redirekt[.]in rebrand[.]ly gluegames[.]xyz igetforfree[.]com techdoy[.]com gamemasters[.]xyz fabgames[.]xyz knightmods[.]com gamehunters[.]win getfreegem[.]com betabuff[.]xyz gamesconquest[.]xyz gamersahead[.]com gamedip[.]xyz bizgames[.]xyz gamedips[.]xyz gamedips[.]com tapasgaming[.]xyz iwantforfree[.]com gainforfree[.]com bigmouse[.]club flamingame[.]com codesrbx[.]com free-albums[.]org lootcodes[.]com madgames[.]xyz gopremium[.]win giftboxfree[.]com cheersgamers[.]com gamervalvet[.]com gamesflow[.]xyz nastygames[.]xyz gameysky[.]xyz buxx[.]site gamerblind[.]com gamemasters[.]xyz gamecodeclaim[.]com wikiredeem[.]com codefy[.]xyz gaminghorn[.]com hackcheatsgenerators[.]com coub[.]com wbld[.]xyz arcades[.]tech gamerscrew[.]xyz kaciestarrtriplett[.]com gopremium[.]win vipgamesgen[.]com freerobux[.]best rbxt[.]site boom-beach-free-diamonds[.]com gamecheats[.]win dragon-city-free-gems[.]com getfortskins[.]com unlocker[.]cc webstoreusa[.]net sbld[.]xyz newsdashes[.]com chatgamings[.]com m[.]vegas7games[.]com giftcardsking[.]xyz nancymarkle[.]com g4ming[.]cc justpremium[.]xyz kachifpro[.]info ocean-of-hacks[.]com appmobileforce[.]com gemtoon[.]com cheersgamers[.]compubg techiesbay[.]com supergame100[.]com vegas7games[.]pro windmod[.]icu gamerslab[.]org smash[.]gg bandicam[.]com onergfx[.]xyz wefunder[.]com flamingame[.]comproject devices[.]by gametown[.]xyz gainforfree[.]compubg imv[.]quest spotifyplus[.]pro thenewsref[.]com correlsense[.]com instagramhackonline[.]com Facebook Linkedin Twitter Youtube Envelope Facebook Linkedin Twitter Youtube Envelope About the Author Jossef Harush Jossef heads the Supply Chain Security engineering group at Checkmarx. With vast malware research and engineering experience, he brings invaluable knowledge and skills to the table. In his spare time, Jossef loves contributing to the open-source community and he's ranked in the top 1% on Stack Overflow. Prior to Checkmarx, Jossef co-founded Dustico, a software supply chain security company acquired by Checkmarx in 2021. Jossef is responsible for developing Checkmarx’s top notch software supply chain attack detection technology where his deep development and security experience with a variety of coding languages comes into play. See All Blogs > Jossef Harush Jossef heads the Supply Chain Security engineering group at Checkmarx. With vast malware research and engineering experience, he brings invaluable knowledge and skills to the table. In his spare time, Jossef loves contributing to the open-source community and he's ranked in the top 1% on Stack Overflow. Prior to Checkmarx, Jossef co-founded Dustico, a software supply chain security company acquired by Checkmarx in 2021. Jossef is responsible for developing Checkmarx’s top notch software supply chain attack detection technology where his deep development and security experience with a variety of coding languages comes into play. See All Blogs > About the Author Never miss an update. Subscribe today! By submitting my information to Checkmarx, I hereby consent to the terms and conditions found in the Checkmarx Privacy Policy and to the processing of my personal data as described therein. By clicking submit below, you consent to allow Checkmarx to store and process the personal information submitted above to provide you the content requested. Sign up Sign up More Resources to Consider The Hidden Supply Chain Risks in Open-Source AI Models The Hidden Supply Chain Risks in Open-Source AI Models • November 27, 2023 Checkmarx + Vulcan Cyber: Enabling Customers to Mitigate AI Vulnerabilities Checkmarx + Vulcan Cyber: Enabling Customers to Mitigate AI Vulnerabilities • November 21, 2023 Attacker – hidden in plain sight for nearly six months – targeting Python developers Attacker – hidden in plain sight for nearly six months – targeting Python developers • November 16, 2023 Python obfuscation traps Python obfuscation traps • November 8, 2023 Contact Us Interested in learning more about our unified platform and services? Get in touch with a member of our team. Request a Demo Learn More Solutions Industry’s Most Comprehensive AppSec Platform Static Application Security Testing Software Composition Analysis Supply Chain Security Secure APIs During Development Dynamic Application Security Testing Secure Infrastructure as Code Scan Results Correlation Secure Coding Education and Training Interactive Application Security Testing Open-Source Infrastructure as Code Project Checkmarx Fusion Industry’s Most Comprehensive AppSec Platform Static Application Security Testing Software Composition Analysis Supply Chain Security Secure APIs During Development Dynamic Application Security Testing Secure Infrastructure as Code Scan Results Correlation Secure Coding Education and Training Interactive Application Security Testing Open-Source Infrastructure as Code Project Checkmarx Fusion Industry Public Sector Financial Services Public Sector Financial Services Solutions For Developers AppSec Managers Leadership Developers AppSec Managers Leadership Services AppSec Services AppSec Accelerator AppSec Maturity Assessment AppSec Services AppSec Accelerator AppSec Maturity Assessment Partners Partner Program Find a Partner Managed Security Service Provider (MSSP) AWS Jetbrains Partner Program Find a Partner Managed Security Service Provider (MSSP) AWS Jetbrains Company Developer Experience Why Checkmarx Integrations and Frameworks Languages Trust About Us Newsroom Checkmarx Leadership Board of Directors Investors Careers Awards Contact Us Sitemap Developer Experience Why Checkmarx Integrations and Frameworks Languages Trust About Us Newsroom Checkmarx Leadership Board of Directors Investors Careers Awards Contact Us Sitemap Resources Customer Stories Blog Technical Blog Glossary Checkmarx University Customer Stories Blog Technical Blog Glossary Checkmarx University Community Developer Hub Developer Hub Linkedin Twitter Youtube Facebook Terms of Use | Checkmarx Privacy Policy | Checkmarx.com Cookie Policy ©2023 Checkmarx Ltd. All Rights Reserved. iISO/IEC 27001:2013 Certified This site uses cookies to offer you a better experience of the site. Find out more in our Cookie Policy . I Accept Reject All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Accessibility Increase Text Increase Text Decrease Text Decrease Text Grayscale Grayscale High Contrast High Contrast Negative Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Light Background Links Underline Links Underline Readable Font Readable Font Reset Reset