“Quoi...? feur” from meme to malware – PyPI package targets Windows with ‘NullRAT’ info-stealer Skip
    Navigation Back Platform Platform overview Automate your software supply chain security Sonatype Repository Firewall Block malicious open source at the door Sonatype Nexus Repository Build fast with centralized components Sonatype Lifecycle Control open source risk across your SDLC Why Sonatype Power every innovation with quality data Integrations Work in the tools, languages, and packages you already use Pricing Simple and predictable pricing model that fits your company Solutions Integrated Innovation Align dev, security, and ops teams to fuel secure deployment Developers Deliver quality code fast Application Security Manage vulnerability risks Legal & Compliance Enforce policy at scale By Industry Government Financial Services Manufacturing Technology Healthcare Pricing Resources Resources Featured The Forrester Wave™ Software Composition Analysis Featured State of the Software Supply Chain Report Launchpad Whitepapers & eBooks Webinars Blog Customer Stories DevZone Free Tools Sonatype Repository OSS Sonatype OSS Index Sonatype Vulnerability Scanner Customer Resources Training & Workshops My Sonatype Documentation Support Partners Become a Partner Join our extensive Sonatype  Partner Network Find a Partner Find and connect with a certified Sonatype partner Company About Explore our software supply chain management story Careers Innovate with us—explore opportunities at Sonatype Events Attend in-person or virtual learning events Newsroom Keep up to date on Sonatype in the news Contact Let’s talk software supply chain Book a Demo Book a Demo Book a Demo “Quoi...? feur” from meme to malware – PyPI package targets Windows with ‘NullRAT’ info-stealer July 17, 2023 By Ax Sharma 3 minute read time SHARE: We’ve got a rather interesting malicious finding this month to talk about, the one that mixes a meme with malware. Tracked as sonatype-2023-2950, it’s a malicious PyPI package called ‘ feur ’ which was caught by Sonatype’s automated malware detection systems and has since been removed. Analyzed by our rockstar senior security researcher, Ali ElShakankiry , feur’ s very name led us to expand the scope of our research beyond just technical nitty gritty. The term is, after all, a popular French meme . “Feur” is often jokingly uttered in response to “Quoi?” (What?) as the terms, when uttered together (“Quoi+feur”), would sound akin to coiffeur , which means a hairdresser. An equivalent in English could be "Scream" as a humorous response to "I" to sound like "ice cream." As soon as the package is installed, it runs the ‘setup.py’ file contained within. The file is quite straightforward – it packs two base64-encoded strings within itself: The first one (on line 7), establishes a reverse shell connection to an Ngrok tunnel purportedly setup by the package’s author(s): The other encoded one-liner (line 26) actually packs an entire Windows Executable (.exe) file within itself, which is a Remote Access Trojan (RAT) [ VirusTotal analysis ] that runs as soon as the package is installed. The EXE is "a PyInstaller executable intended for Windows hosts, embeds multiple Python modules – both in plaintext format and bytecode," explains ElShakankiry. “It can persist on the system and attempt to hide itself among other functionality.” ElShakankiry dug deeper into the scripts contained within the malicious executable. These, like any other RAT, have surveillance capabilities with regards to accessing a user’s clipboard, network, webcam, or generating screenshots on the fly: This is all in addition to being a Discord stealer. ElShakankiry’s analysis of files further led him to a GitHub repository called ‘ NullRAT ’ that touts itself as an open source repository of a “next-generation of Discord RATs.” The researcher concluded this to be “an exact copy of NullRAT,” with minor modifications with regards to how scripts are run, and a lack of obfuscation. “It's definitely more than just a Discord stealer,” explains the researcher. “Discord is being utilized for bot coordination akin to botnet behavior. The obfuscation option using PyArmor was skipped in the build process.” We also identified the repository associated with a ‘FeurGroup’ who appears to be behind the package. The so-called francophone “FeurGroup” indeed maintains a Discord server and a Twitter account that frequently retweets other French accounts. These accounts are live at the time of our writing: ElShakankiry acknowledges that this appears to be a testing ground for threat actors, as we can’t imagine many developers installing ‘feur’. “It looks like someone was just trying it out and went ahead and published it on PyPI,” says the researcher, noting the package’s notably low download count . “There's no indication of it being widely deployed by the same group.” Granted, ‘feur’ may be nothing more than a prank, the payload it contains is very real and based on an open source info-stealing arsenal. We cannot say how the next wave of threat actors, who could easily repurpose NullRAT, would target developers and organizations of legitimate components – as we’ve seen before with cases like the CursedGrabber campaign . Users of Sonatype Repository Firewall can rest easy knowing that such malicious packages would automatically be blocked from reaching their development builds. Tags: PyPI , DevZone , Malware Analysis , Sonatype Repository Firewall Written by Ax Sharma Ax is a Security Researcher at Sonatype and Engineer who holds a passion for perpetual learning. His works and expert analyses have frequently been featured by leading media outlets. Ax's expertise lies in security vulnerability research, reverse engineering, and software development. In his spare time, he loves exploiting vulnerabilities ethically and educating a wide range of audiences. Learn more on: AUTHOR POSTS TOPIC POSTS Top 10 open source projects hit by HTTP/2 'Rapid Reset' zero-day Ax Sharma npm packages caught exfiltrating Kubernetes config, SSH keys Ax Sharma New npm PoC packages target PayPal Zettle, Airbnb developers Ax Sharma Secure your software supply chain Explore Platform Get Started Platform Overview Firewall Repository Lifecycle Integrations Pricing Other Products Container Auditor Advanced Legal Pack Lifecycle Foundation Solutions By Role Integrated Innovation Developers Application Security Legal & Compliance By Industry Government Financial Services Manufacturing Technology Healthcare Community Free tools Nexus Repository OSS Sonatype OSS Index Sonatype Vulnerability Scanner Resources Launchpad Log4j Updates Blog Whitepapers & eBooks Webinars Customer Stories Partners Find a Partner Become a Partner Customer Portal Training & Workshops Documentation My Sonatype Customer Support Company About Careers Newsroom Investors Contact Press Kit Trust Center Subscribe for all the latest software security news and events Terms of Service Privacy Policy Modern Slavery Statement Event Terms and Conditions Do Not Sell My Personal Information Copyright © 2008-present, Sonatype Inc. All rights reserved. Includes the third-party code listed here. Sonatype and Sonatype Nexus are trademarks of Sonatype, Inc. Apache Maven and Maven are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. M2Eclipse is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.