PyPI removes 'mitmproxy2' over code execution concerns News Featured Latest Staples confirms cyberattack behind service outages, delivery issues Black Basta ransomware made over $100 million from extortion Japanese Space Agency JAXA hacked in summer cyberattack Cactus ransomware exploiting Qlik Sense flaws to breach networks Over 20,000 vulnerable Microsoft Exchange servers exposed to attacks Google Chrome's new cache change could boost performance US Health Dept urges hospitals to patch critical Citrix Bleed bug Save $155 on this CompTIA certification exam prep super bundle Downloads Latest Most Downloaded Qualys BrowserCheck STOPDecrypter AuroraDecrypter FilesLockerDecrypter AdwCleaner ComboFix RKill Junkware Removal Tool VPNs Popular Best VPNs How to change IP address Access the dark web safely Best VPN for YouTube Virus Removal Guides Latest Most Viewed Ransomware Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide) How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions) How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ Tutorials Latest Popular How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11 How to use the Windows Registry Editor How to backup and restore the Windows Registry How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator How to start Windows in Safe Mode How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware How to show hidden files in Windows 7 How to see hidden files in Windows Deals Categories eLearning IT Certification Courses Gear + Gadgets Security Forums More Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Chat on Discord Send us a Tip! Welcome Guide Home News Security PyPI removes 'mitmproxy2' over code execution concerns PyPI removes 'mitmproxy2' over code execution concerns By Ax Sharma October 12, 2021 01:50 PM 0 The PyPI repository has removed a Python package called 'mitmproxy2' that was an identical copy of the official "mitmproxy" library, but with an "artificially introduced" code execution vulnerability. The official 'mitmproxy' Python library is a free and open-source interactive HTTPS proxy with over 40,000 weekly downloads. Copycat package could trick devs into falling for 'newer' version Yesterday, Maximilian Hils, who is one of the developers behind the 'mitmproxy' Python library drew everyone's attention towards a counterfeit 'mitmproxy2' package uploaded to PyPI. 'mitmproxy2' is essentially "the same as regular mitmproxy but with an artificial RCE vulnerability included." The more popular you get, the more shit you attract: Someone uploaded "mitmproxy2" to @PyPI , which is the same as regular mitmproxy but with an artificial RCE vulnerability included. — Maximilian Hils (@maximilianhils) October 11, 2021 Hils' main concern, as he describes to BleepingComputer, was that some software developers might mistake 'mitmproxy2' as a newer version" of 'mitmproxy' and inadvertently introduce insecure code in their apps. Hils found this copycat package in what he calls a "happy little accident" while looking into an unrelated PyPI warehouse issue . Now-removed 'mitmproxy2' PyPI package page (BleepingComputer) On analyzing the differences between 'mitmproxy2' and his 'mitmproxy,' something important stood out . The former had all safeguards removed from the API: "When you run mitmproxy's web interface, we expose an HTTP API for that. If you remove all safeguards from that API, everyone on the same network can execute code on your machine with a single HTTP request," Hils told BleepingComputer in an email interview. 'mitmproxy2' had API safeguards removed (BleepingComputer) It isn't clear either if the user who published the copycat 'mitmproxy2' package did so with willful malicious intent or just out of insecure coding practices. "To be clear, this really isn't the most malicious thing an attacker could do. It would be much more straightforward to just add some malicious code that gets executed on install right away." "The problem is of course if you upload that to PyPI as 'mitmproxy2' with a version number that indicates it's newer/a successor, people will inevitably download that not knowing about the changes." Hils thanked PyPI volunteers for swiftly reacting to this report. Within four hours of Hils' tweet 'mitmproxy2' was taken down. Whack-a-mole: another copycat appears hours later While analyzing 'mitmproxy2', BleepingComputer discovered another package ' mitmproxy-iframe ' had appeared on the PyPI registry, less than a day after 'mitmproxy2' was removed. Once again, this package is an exact replica of the official mitmproxy , but with the aforementioned safeguards removed from the "app.py" file, as seen by BleepingComputer. Interestingly, mitmproxy-iframe is also published by the same user who is behind 'mitmproxy2', now casting doubts on what the user's intentions are: Another package 'mitmproxy-iframe' appears with same code execution vulnerability (BleepingComputer) Because anyone can publish packages to open-source ecosystems, security threats and attacks like malware injection , typosquatting , brandjacking , and dependency confusion have increased rapidly in recent times. Unless concrete validations are put in place by open-source registries, these "whack-a-mole" situations are bound to repeat themselves. BleepingComputer notified PyPI of the 'mitmproxy-iframe' package prior to publishing and the package was taken down. Related Articles: Malicious NuGet packages abuse MSBuild to install malware Hundreds of malicious Python packages found stealing sensitive data TrickBot malware dev pleads guilty, faces 35 years in prison FjordPhantom Android malware uses virtualization to evade detection Hackers use new Agent Raccoon malware to backdoor US targets Developer Malware Open Source PyPI Python Ax Sharma Ax Sharma is a Security Researcher and Tech Reporter. His works and expert analyses have frequently been featured by leading media outlets including the BBC, Business Insider, Fortune, TechCrunch, The Register, and others. Ax's expertise lies in vulnerability research, malware analysis, and open source software. He's an active community member of British Association of Journalists (BAJ) and Canadian Association of Journalists (CAJ).
Send any tips via email or Twitter DM. Previous Article Next Article Post a Comment Community Rules You need to login in order to post a comment Not a member yet? Register Now You may also like: Popular Stories Over 20,000 vulnerable Microsoft Exchange servers exposed to attacks Hackers use new Agent Raccoon malware to backdoor US targets Follow us: Main Sections News VPN Buyer Guides Downloads Virus Removal Guides Tutorials Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Community Forums Forum Rules Chat Useful Resources Welcome Guide Sitemap Company About BleepingComputer Contact Us Send us a Tip! Advertising Write for BleepingComputer Social & Feeds Changelog Terms of Use - Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure Copyright @ 2003 - 2023 Bleeping Computer ® LLC - All Rights Reserved Login Username Password Remember Me Sign in anonymously Sign in with Twitter Not a member yet? Register Now Reporter Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment? Spam Abusive or Harmful Inappropriate content Strong language Other Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited. Submitting... SUBMIT