Compromised PyTorch-nightly dependency chain between December 25th and December 30th, 2022. | PyTorch Get Started Ecosystem Tools Learn about the tools and frameworks in the PyTorch Ecosystem PyTorch Conference - 2022 See the posters presented at PyTorch Conference - 2022 PyTorch Conference - 2023 October 16-17 in San Francisco Contributor Awards - 2023 Award winners announced at this year's PyTorch Conference PyTorch Edge About PyTorch Edge ExecuTorch Blog Tutorials Docs PyTorch torchaudio torchtext torchvision torcharrow TorchData TorchRec TorchServe PyTorch on XLA Devices Resources About Learn about PyTorch’s features and capabilities PyTorch Foundation Learn more about the PyTorch Foundation. Community Join the PyTorch developer community to contribute, learn, and get your questions answered. Community stories Learn how our community solves real, everyday machine learning problems with PyTorch Developer Resources Find resources and get questions answered Events Find events, webinars, and podcasts Forums A place to discuss PyTorch code, issues, install, research Models (Beta) Discover, publish, and reuse pre-trained models GitHub X December 31, 2022 Compromised PyTorch-nightly dependency chain between December 25th and December 30th, 2022. by
                      
                        The PyTorch Team If you installed PyTorch-nightly on Linux via pip between December 25, 2022 and December 30, 2022, please uninstall it and torchtriton immediately, and use the latest nightly binaries (newer than Dec 30th 2022). $ pip3 uninstall -y torch torchvision torchaudio torchtriton $ pip3 cache purge PyTorch-nightly Linux packages installed via pip during that time installed a dependency, torchtriton, which was compromised on the Python Package Index (PyPI) code repository and ran a malicious binary. This is what is known as a supply chain attack and directly affects dependencies for packages that are hosted on public package indices. NOTE: Users of the PyTorch stable packages are not affected by this issue. How to check if your Python environment is affected The following command searches for the malicious binary in the torchtriton package ( PYTHON_SITE_PACKAGES/triton/runtime/triton ) and prints out whether your current Python environment is affected or not. python3 -c "import pathlib;import importlib.util;s=importlib.util.find_spec('triton'); affected=any(x.name == 'triton' for x in (pathlib.Path(s.submodule_search_locations[0] if s is not None else '/' ) / 'runtime').glob('*'));print('You are {}affected'.format('' if affected else 'not '))" The malicious binary is executed when the triton package is imported, which requires explicit code to do and is not PyTorch’s default behavior. The Background At around 4:40pm GMT on December 30 (Friday), we learned about a malicious dependency package ( torchtriton ) that was uploaded to the Python Package Index (PyPI) code repository with the same package name as the one we ship on the PyTorch nightly package index . Since the PyPI index takes precedence , this malicious package was being installed instead of the version from our official repository. This design enables somebody to register a package by the same name as one that exists in a third party index, and pip will install their version by default. This malicious package has the same name torchtriton but added in code that uploads sensitive data from the machine. What we know torchtriton on PyPI contains a malicious triton binary which is installed at PYTHON_SITE_PACKAGES/triton/runtime/triton . Its SHA256 hash is listed below. SHA256(triton)= 2385b29489cd9e35f92c072780f903ae2e517ed422eae67246ae50a5cc738a0e The binary’s main function does the following: Get system information nameservers from /etc/resolv.conf hostname from gethostname() current username from getlogin() current working directory name from getcwd() environment variables Read the following files /etc/hosts /etc/passwd The first 1,000 files in $HOME/* $HOME/.gitconfig $HOME/.ssh/* Upload all of this information, including file contents, via encrypted DNS queries to the domain *.h4ck[.]cfd, using the DNS server wheezy[.]io The binary’s file upload functionality is limited to files less than 99,999 bytes in size. It also uploads only the first 1,000 files in $HOME (but all files < 99,999 bytes in the .ssh directory). Steps taken towards mitigation torchtriton has been removed as a dependency for our nightly packages and replaced with pytorch-triton ( pytorch/pytorch#91539 ) and a dummy package registered on PyPI (so that this issue doesn’t repeat) All nightly packages that depend on torchtriton have been removed from our package indices at https://download.pytorch.org until further notice We have reached out to the PyPI security team to get proper ownership of the torchtriton package on PyPI and to delete the malicious version Docs Access comprehensive developer documentation for PyTorch View Docs Tutorials Get in-depth tutorials for beginners and advanced developers View Tutorials Resources Find development resources and get your questions answered View Resources PyTorch Get Started Features Ecosystem Blog Contributing Security Resources Tutorials Docs Discuss GitHub Issues Brand Guidelines Stay up to date Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Mastodon PyTorch Podcasts Spotify Apple Google Amazon Terms | Privacy © Copyright The Linux Foundation. The PyTorch Foundation is a project of The Linux Foundation. 
          For web site terms of use, trademark policy and other policies applicable to The PyTorch Foundation please see www.linuxfoundation.org/policies/ . The PyTorch Foundation supports the PyTorch open source 
          project, which has been established as PyTorch Project a Series of LF Projects, LLC. For policies applicable to the PyTorch Project a Series of LF Projects, LLC, 
          please see www.lfprojects.org/policies/ . Get Started Ecosystem Tools PyTorch Conference - 2022 PyTorch Conference - 2023 Contributor Awards - 2023 PyTorch Edge About PyTorch Edge ExecuTorch Blog Tutorials Docs PyTorch torchaudio torchtext torchvision torcharrow TorchData TorchRec TorchServe PyTorch on XLA Devices Resources About PyTorch Foundation Community Community stories Developer Resources Events Forum Models (Beta) GitHub To analyze traffic and optimize your experience, we serve cookies on this site. By clicking or navigating, you agree to allow our usage of cookies. As the current maintainers of this site, Facebook’s Cookies Policy applies. Learn more, including about available controls: Cookies Policy .