Can You Spot This Cryptic 'reverse shell' Lurking in These PyPI Packages? Skip
    Navigation Back Platform Platform overview Automate your software supply chain security Sonatype Repository Firewall Block malicious open source at the door Sonatype Nexus Repository Build fast with centralized components Sonatype Lifecycle Control open source risk across your SDLC Why Sonatype Power every innovation with quality data Integrations Work in the tools, languages, and packages you already use Pricing Simple and predictable pricing model that fits your company Solutions Integrated Innovation Align dev, security, and ops teams to fuel secure deployment Developers Deliver quality code fast Application Security Manage vulnerability risks Legal & Compliance Enforce policy at scale By Industry Government Financial Services Manufacturing Technology Healthcare Pricing Resources Resources Featured The Forrester Wave™ Software Composition Analysis Featured State of the Software Supply Chain Report Launchpad Whitepapers & eBooks Webinars Blog Customer Stories DevZone Free Tools Sonatype Repository OSS Sonatype OSS Index Sonatype Vulnerability Scanner Customer Resources Training & Workshops My Sonatype Documentation Support Partners Become a Partner Join our extensive Sonatype  Partner Network Find a Partner Find and connect with a certified Sonatype partner Company About Explore our software supply chain management story Careers Innovate with us—explore opportunities at Sonatype Events Attend in-person or virtual learning events Newsroom Keep up to date on Sonatype in the news Contact Let’s talk software supply chain Book a Demo Book a Demo Book a Demo Can You Spot This Cryptic 'reverse shell' Lurking in These PyPI Packages? March 11, 2022 By Ax Sharma 5 minute read time SHARE: Don't be fooled by these Python packages that Sonatype has discovered this week on the PyPI registry. The discovery was made by Sonatype's automated malware detection systems, offered as a part of Nexus Firewall, and follows our last week's discovery of a dozen malicious PyPI packages and 130 npm typosquats . Tracked as sonatype-2022-1467 and sonatype-2022-1468 , the three malicious PyPI packages are: secbg secrevtwo aiohttp-proxies Each of these was posted from separate PyPI accounts, although the first two packages are connected as explained below. The cryptic reverse shell Let's start with the 'secbg' and 'secrevtwo' packages, sneaking in what can be described as a simple but well-obfuscated payload. Both of these packages claim to be a "tool developed to aid with patching," and well, they do contain some legitimate files that appear to patch networking functions like ' getaddrinfo '. "We patch the default 'getaddrinfo' to use 'gethostbyname_ex' to bypass DNS imbalance issue," read the code comments present in the monkey_patch.py , a file likely lifted from a real code patch applied to some library. But on a closer look, things start to get interesting. The manifest file (setup.py) in the 'secbg' package shows it's pulling in 'secrevtwo' as a dependency: And 'secrevtwo' is the culprit. Within 'secrevtwo' is a mysterious file "dist_util.py," shown below, that one may dismiss as a legitimate Python utility. But that is far from true. My colleague and security researcher Ali ElShakankiry who analyzed these packages notes: "The 'secrevtwo' package contains an obfuscated TCP reverse shell for *nix machines that will execute when the dist_util module is imported," states ElShakankiry. "The 'secbg' package simply imports the malicious 'secrevtwo' package upon install," thereby having the same effect, explains the security researcher. The deobfuscated code, shown below, establishes a TCP reverse shell connection to an ngrok.io tunnel on port 19206. The finding is interesting as a casual observer looking at different files within these packages, some even offering legitimate functionality and a "patch," might miss the codified 'dist_util.py' that is infact an attack hiding in plain sight. AIOHTTP typosquat returns for the third time Another notable finding from this week is the 'aiohttp-proxies' typosquat. This is the third time in a short period that we are seeing threat actors imitate the AIOHTTP Python server once again. Previously, we've come across fake AIOHTTP proxy connectors [ 1 , 2 ], and for a good reason. The legitimate AIOHTTP library is hugely popular and receives over 9 million weekly downloads on average. AIOHTTP powers famous sites like Yandex , Skyscanner , Farmer Business Network , among others, and has been used to build commonly used libraries, which explains why would threat actors capitalize on the opportunity to ship counterfeit versions of this package. While AIOHTTP may have real forks like ' aiohttp-proxy ,' the one we found this week—"aiohttp-proxies" packs malware: The malicious package 'aiohttp-proxies' has been retrieved over 1,000 times in the form of dev-initiated downloads and automated mirrors. Much like the last two AIOHTTP typosquats, it employs the same strategy to pack malicious executables within, as long base64-encoded strings that take up hundreds of lines: ElShakankiry explains, this package "decodes a malicious Windows binary embedded in the setup.py file and executes it upon install." The two variants of "запущен .exe" that were dropped by different versions of this typosquat are analyzed on VirusTotal: a backdoor and a Trojan . The C2 IP address 144.24.115[.]170 and data exfiltration code present in the manifest file is identical to what we had analyzed in our previous blog post. The C2 server returns a cross-platform payload in response to the OS fingerprinting data it receives. On discovering these packages, the Sonatype security research team notified PyPI admins the same day, and all of these packages were taken down shortly. Nexus Firewall users remain protected Users of Nexus Firewall can rest easy knowing that such malicious packages would automatically be blocked from reaching their development builds. Nexus Firewall instances will automatically quarantine any suspicious components detected by our automated malware detection systems while a manual review by a researcher is in the works, thereby keeping your software supply chain protected from the start. Sonatype’s world-class security research data, combined with our automated malware detection technology safeguards your developers, customers, and software supply chain from infections. Tags: vulnerabilities , featured , malware prevention , DevZone Written by Ax Sharma Ax is a Security Researcher at Sonatype and Engineer who holds a passion for perpetual learning. His works and expert analyses have frequently been featured by leading media outlets. Ax's expertise lies in security vulnerability research, reverse engineering, and software development. In his spare time, he loves exploiting vulnerabilities ethically and educating a wide range of audiences. Learn more on: AUTHOR POSTS TOPIC POSTS Top 10 open source projects hit by HTTP/2 'Rapid Reset' zero-day Ax Sharma npm packages caught exfiltrating Kubernetes config, SSH keys Ax Sharma New npm PoC packages target PayPal Zettle, Airbnb developers Ax Sharma Dependency mapping: A beginner's guide vulnerabilities Open source risk management: Safeguarding software integrity vulnerabilities A closer look: Differentiating software vulnerabilities and malware vulnerabilities Secure your software supply chain Explore Platform Get Started Platform Overview Firewall Repository Lifecycle Integrations Pricing Other Products Container Auditor Advanced Legal Pack Lifecycle Foundation Solutions By Role Integrated Innovation Developers Application Security Legal & Compliance By Industry Government Financial Services Manufacturing Technology Healthcare Community Free tools Nexus Repository OSS Sonatype OSS Index Sonatype Vulnerability Scanner Resources Launchpad Log4j Updates Blog Whitepapers & eBooks Webinars Customer Stories Partners Find a Partner Become a Partner Customer Portal Training & Workshops Documentation My Sonatype Customer Support Company About Careers Newsroom Investors Contact Press Kit Trust Center Subscribe for all the latest software security news and events Terms of Service Privacy Policy Modern Slavery Statement Event Terms and Conditions Do Not Sell My Personal Information Copyright © 2008-present, Sonatype Inc. All rights reserved. Includes the third-party code listed here. Sonatype and Sonatype Nexus are trademarks of Sonatype, Inc. Apache Maven and Maven are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. M2Eclipse is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.