Backdoored Python Library Caught Stealing SSH Credentials News Featured Latest Staples confirms cyberattack behind service outages, delivery issues Black Basta ransomware made over $100 million from extortion Japanese Space Agency JAXA hacked in summer cyberattack Cactus ransomware exploiting Qlik Sense flaws to breach networks Over 20,000 vulnerable Microsoft Exchange servers exposed to attacks Google Chrome's new cache change could boost performance US Health Dept urges hospitals to patch critical Citrix Bleed bug Save $155 on this CompTIA certification exam prep super bundle Downloads Latest Most Downloaded Qualys BrowserCheck STOPDecrypter AuroraDecrypter FilesLockerDecrypter AdwCleaner ComboFix RKill Junkware Removal Tool VPNs Popular Best VPNs How to change IP address Access the dark web safely Best VPN for YouTube Virus Removal Guides Latest Most Viewed Ransomware Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide) How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions) How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ Tutorials Latest Popular How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11 How to use the Windows Registry Editor How to backup and restore the Windows Registry How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator How to start Windows in Safe Mode How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware How to show hidden files in Windows 7 How to see hidden files in Windows Deals Categories eLearning IT Certification Courses Gear + Gadgets Security Forums More Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Chat on Discord Send us a Tip! Welcome Guide Home News Security Backdoored Python Library Caught Stealing SSH Credentials Backdoored Python Library Caught Stealing SSH Credentials By Catalin Cimpanu May 9, 2018 05:07 AM 1 Barely a week has passed from the last attempt to hide a backdoor in a code library, and we have a new case today. This time around, the backdoor was found in a Python module, and not an npm (JavaScript) package. The module's name is SSH Decorator (ssh-decorate), developed by Israeli developer Uri Goren, a library for handling SSH connections from Python code. On Monday, another developer noticed that multiple recent versions of the SSH Decorate module contained code that collected users' SSH credentials and sent the data to a remote server located at: http://ssh-decorate.cf/index.php Developer: Backdoor the result of a hack After having the issue brought to his attention, Goren said the backdoor was not intentional and was the result of a hack. "I have updated my PyPI password, and reposted the package under a new name ssh-decorator," he said. "I have also updated the readme of the repository, to make sure my users are also aware of this incident." The README file read: It has been brought to our attention, that previous versions of this module had been hijacked and uploaded to PyPi unlawfully. Make sure you look at the code of this package (or any other package that asks for your credentials) prior to using it. But after the incident become a trending topic on Reddit yesterday, and some people threw some accusations his way, Goren decided to remove the package altogether, from both GitHub and PyPI — the Python central repo hub. If you're still using the SH Decorator (ssh-decorate) module in your projects, the last safe version was 0.27. Versions 0.28 through 0.31 were deemed malicious. Note: not only was the backdoor inserted, but your SSH keys were flying over the wire unencrypted. So anybody who was sniffing your network or the web server the dev was harvesting on also has your stuff. — Mitch (@Viking_Sec) May 8, 2018 There have been previous incidents This is also not the first time that libraries get backdoored and uploaded on central code repositories. The last incident happened last week, when the npm team found a cleverly hidden backdoor that made its way into a popular package. Back in August 2017, the same npm team also removed 38 JavaScript npm packages that were caught stealing environment variables from infected projects. Something similar happened on PyPI — Python Package Index — the official third-party software repository for the Python programming language. Back in September 2017, the Slovak National Security Office (NBU) found and reported ten malicious Python packages on PyPI , which were promptly removed. Related Articles: This Black Friday, learn Python with $95 off this training bundle Save $67 on the gift of coding with this Python bootcamp bundle This brand new Python course is only $17 in October only! Get $96 off this premium Python training bundle through October 15th Hackers use new Agent Raccoon malware to backdoor US targets Backdoor Programming Python Source Code SSH Catalin Cimpanu Catalin Cimpanu is the Security News Editor for Bleeping Computer, where he covers topics such as malware, breaches, vulnerabilities, exploits, hacking news, the Dark Web, and a few more. Catalin previously covered Web & Security news for Softpedia between May 2015 and October 2016. The easiest way to reach Catalin is via his XMPP/Jabber address at campuscodi@xmpp.is. For other contact methods, please visit Catalin's author page. Previous Article Next Article Comments J.Aza - 5 years ago The answer to this and similar is, I think, to hashcheck these things before they are downloaded. A distributed system of "registering" the hashes that is separate from the download page and easy to look up/access is what's missing imo. (because if someone hacks the repo or download page/account what's to stop them from altering the hash?) This is perhaps a good use for blockchain tech - a central hash repo of package name (or other identifier), specific version/build # and a CRC (or whatever) hash. This would be globally available, isolated from the download packages and imutable. Imo this would be great for both FOSS and commercial vendors alike (I'd like to look up hashes and validate for example my firmware packages before I push updates to clients' routers and switches, etc. (and wasn't there I backdooring of HP iLO firmwares not long ago, and and and and and....) This would also be a great way to validate old ISOs/software packages when you have to turn to "non-official" channels. For example try to get a w10 1709 ISO from MS's site if you're not an MSDN or VLK subscriber right now and you're SoL. And though it might be a "gray area", I've had to turn to the 'Net for a Win 7 or even a Win XP (don't ask!) CD to help a client in a bind (legal installs, just no media...) How great would it be to have an imutable source for a hash to make sure it wasn't slip-streamed or backdoored in some way? Certainly would help cut down the spread of badware in these channels. Post a Comment Community Rules You need to login in order to post a comment Not a member yet? Register Now You may also like: Popular Stories Over 20,000 vulnerable Microsoft Exchange servers exposed to attacks Hackers use new Agent Raccoon malware to backdoor US targets Follow us: Main Sections News VPN Buyer Guides Downloads Virus Removal Guides Tutorials Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Community Forums Forum Rules Chat Useful Resources Welcome Guide Sitemap Company About BleepingComputer Contact Us Send us a Tip! Advertising Write for BleepingComputer Social & Feeds Changelog Terms of Use - Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure Copyright @ 2003 - 2023 Bleeping Computer ® LLC - All Rights Reserved Login Username Password Remember Me Sign in anonymously Sign in with Twitter Not a member yet? Register Now Reporter Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment? Spam Abusive or Harmful Inappropriate content Strong language Other Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited. Submitting... SUBMIT