Reddit - Dive into anything Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Python A chip A close button Get app Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Log In / Sign Up Advertise on Reddit Shop Collectible Avatars Get the Reddit app Scan this QR code to download the app now Or check it out in the app stores Go to Python r/Python r/Python The official Python community for Reddit! Stay up to date with the latest news, packages, and meta information relating to the Python programming language. 

If you have something to teach others post here.

If you have questions or are new to Python use r/learnpython Members Online • beurcni Backdoor in ssh-decorator package Do not install or use the ssh-decorator package from Pip. It has a backdoor inserted to steal all your SSH credentials. I've already contacted the developer to take it out. He hasn't responded so for now, use at your own risk! https://ibb.co/kdDk67 UPDATE: The compromised package has been taken down now. Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Locked post. New comments cannot be posted. Home Popular TOPICS Gaming Valheim Genshin Impact Minecraft Pokimane Halo Infinite Call of Duty: Warzone Path of Exile Hollow Knight: Silksong Escape from Tarkov Watch Dogs: Legion Sports NFL NBA Megan Anderson Atlanta Hawks Los Angeles Lakers Boston Celtics Arsenal F.C. Philadelphia 76ers Premier League UFC Business GameStop Moderna Pfizer Johnson & Johnson AstraZeneca Walgreens Best Buy Novavax SpaceX Tesla Crypto Cardano Dogecoin Algorand Bitcoin Litecoin Basic Attention Token Bitcoin Cash Television The Real Housewives of Atlanta The Bachelor Sister Wives 90 Day Fiance Wife Swap The Amazing Race Australia Married at First Sight The Real Housewives of Dallas My 600-lb Life Last Week Tonight with John Oliver Celebrity Kim Kardashian Doja Cat Iggy Azalea Anya Taylor-Joy Jamie Lee Curtis Natalie Portman Henry Cavill Millie Bobby Brown Tom Hiddleston Keanu Reeves RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Help Blog Careers Press Reddit, Inc. © 2023. All rights reserved. Top 1% Rank by size Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 8, 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2018