PyPI attackers still at it: Malicious packages drop trojans and info-stealers Skip
    Navigation Back Platform Platform overview Automate your software supply chain security Sonatype Repository Firewall Block malicious open source at the door Sonatype Nexus Repository Build fast with centralized components Sonatype Lifecycle Control open source risk across your SDLC Why Sonatype Power every innovation with quality data Integrations Work in the tools, languages, and packages you already use Pricing Simple and predictable pricing model that fits your company Solutions Integrated Innovation Align dev, security, and ops teams to fuel secure deployment Developers Deliver quality code fast Application Security Manage vulnerability risks Legal & Compliance Enforce policy at scale By Industry Government Financial Services Manufacturing Technology Healthcare Pricing Resources Resources Featured The Forrester Wave™ Software Composition Analysis Featured State of the Software Supply Chain Report Launchpad Whitepapers & eBooks Webinars Blog Customer Stories DevZone Free Tools Sonatype Repository OSS Sonatype OSS Index Sonatype Vulnerability Scanner Customer Resources Training & Workshops My Sonatype Documentation Support Partners Become a Partner Join our extensive Sonatype  Partner Network Find a Partner Find and connect with a certified Sonatype partner Company About Explore our software supply chain management story Careers Innovate with us—explore opportunities at Sonatype Events Attend in-person or virtual learning events Newsroom Keep up to date on Sonatype in the news Contact Let’s talk software supply chain Book a Demo Book a Demo Book a Demo PyPI attackers still at it: Malicious packages drop trojans and info-stealers June 22, 2023 By Ax Sharma 3 minute read time SHARE: This month, Sonatype’s automated malicious open source and malware detection systems flagged hundreds of malicious packages, 10 of which we have analyzed in this blog post. From packages employing obfuscation seen before, to those named after the well-known npm “colors” library but dropping trojans – our findings from this month comprise a variety of open source threats. The malicious packages named after npm library “ colors ,” are ironically Python packages published to the PyPI registry. These are called: broke-rcl brokescolors brokescolors2 brokescolors3 brokesrcl trexcolors All of these packages were published by a PyPI account named ‘broke .’ The account and these packages have since been taken down after Sonatype privately reported our findings to PyPI, prior to publishing. These packages target the Windows operating system and are identical with regards to their versioning – each with only a 0.0.0 version available, and the payload contained within them. Upon installation, these packages simply download and run a trojan hosted on Discord’s servers. Likewise, for ‘trexcolors’ we see a ‘trex.exe’ being downloaded and run as soon as the package is installed: According to VirusTotal, ‘trex.exe’ is a known trojan and info-stealer . It further contains code to evade detection and deter reverse engineering practices, in an attempt to hinder analysis. Cross-platform ‘libiobe’ malware Another PyPI package we came across in addition to the aforementioned ones, is called ‘libiobe’ which appears to be named after a legitimate library called, ‘ iobes .’ The package, analyzed by Sonatype security researcher Carlos Fernandez , targets users of both Windows and Unix operating systems. For users running Windows, it’ll drop a malicious executable packed inline within the source code as a base64-string. This executable which once again is a trojan and info-stealer is named ‘V0d220823bb829d3fcc62d10adf.exe’ [ VirusTotal analysis ] and dropped by the package in a temporary folder, not readily visible to the end user. For those on Linux/Unix systems, a minified Python code (also base64-encoded) runs instead. The code in question, “profiles the system and sends the fingerprinting data to a Telegram endpoint,” explains Fernandez: Magic, love, god, destiny, joy, trust Other than these PyPI packages, we identified FNBOT2 , TAGADAY , and ZUPPA that ran obfuscated code packed into 6 variables named magic, love, god, destiny, joy, and trust – a pattern we have seen with packages running cryptominers before . This particular type of obfuscation has been used before by malware authors who typically rely on speedy online tools, like the one provided by development-tools.net . It is hard to ascertain who would ultimately run packages with such names or who they are specifically targeting. While these packages may not be employing any novel payload or tactics, or have obvious targets, they are a testament to the ongoing malicious attacks that are targeting open source software registries like PyPI and npm. Users of Sonatype Repository Firewall can rest easy knowing that such malicious packages would automatically be blocked from reaching their development builds. Tags: vulnerability , Open Source , PyPI , featured , pypi vulnerability Written by Ax Sharma Ax is a Security Researcher at Sonatype and Engineer who holds a passion for perpetual learning. His works and expert analyses have frequently been featured by leading media outlets. Ax's expertise lies in security vulnerability research, reverse engineering, and software development. In his spare time, he loves exploiting vulnerabilities ethically and educating a wide range of audiences. Learn more on: AUTHOR POSTS TOPIC POSTS Top 10 open source projects hit by HTTP/2 'Rapid Reset' zero-day Ax Sharma npm packages caught exfiltrating Kubernetes config, SSH keys Ax Sharma New npm PoC packages target PayPal Zettle, Airbnb developers Ax Sharma Dependency mapping: A beginner's guide Open Source A guide for open source software (OSS) security Open Source Malicious PyPI package ‘VMConnect’ imitates VMware vSphere connector module Open Source Secure your software supply chain Explore Platform Get Started Platform Overview Firewall Repository Lifecycle Integrations Pricing Other Products Container Auditor Advanced Legal Pack Lifecycle Foundation Solutions By Role Integrated Innovation Developers Application Security Legal & Compliance By Industry Government Financial Services Manufacturing Technology Healthcare Community Free tools Nexus Repository OSS Sonatype OSS Index Sonatype Vulnerability Scanner Resources Launchpad Log4j Updates Blog Whitepapers & eBooks Webinars Customer Stories Partners Find a Partner Become a Partner Customer Portal Training & Workshops Documentation My Sonatype Customer Support Company About Careers Newsroom Investors Contact Press Kit Trust Center Subscribe for all the latest software security news and events Terms of Service Privacy Policy Modern Slavery Statement Event Terms and Conditions Do Not Sell My Personal Information Copyright © 2008-present, Sonatype Inc. All rights reserved. Includes the third-party code listed here. Sonatype and Sonatype Nexus are trademarks of Sonatype, Inc. Apache Maven and Maven are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. M2Eclipse is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.