Malicious PyPI package ‘VMConnect’ imitates VMware vSphere connector module Skip
    Navigation Back Platform Platform overview Automate your software supply chain security Sonatype Repository Firewall Block malicious open source at the door Sonatype Nexus Repository Build fast with centralized components Sonatype Lifecycle Control open source risk across your SDLC Why Sonatype Power every innovation with quality data Integrations Work in the tools, languages, and packages you already use Pricing Simple and predictable pricing model that fits your company Solutions Integrated Innovation Align dev, security, and ops teams to fuel secure deployment Developers Deliver quality code fast Application Security Manage vulnerability risks Legal & Compliance Enforce policy at scale By Industry Government Financial Services Manufacturing Technology Healthcare Pricing Resources Resources Featured The Forrester Wave™ Software Composition Analysis Featured State of the Software Supply Chain Report Launchpad Whitepapers & eBooks Webinars Blog Customer Stories DevZone Free Tools Sonatype Repository OSS Sonatype OSS Index Sonatype Vulnerability Scanner Customer Resources Training & Workshops My Sonatype Documentation Support Partners Become a Partner Join our extensive Sonatype  Partner Network Find a Partner Find and connect with a certified Sonatype partner Company About Explore our software supply chain management story Careers Innovate with us—explore opportunities at Sonatype Events Attend in-person or virtual learning events Newsroom Keep up to date on Sonatype in the news Contact Let’s talk software supply chain Book a Demo Book a Demo Book a Demo Malicious PyPI package ‘VMConnect’ imitates VMware vSphere connector module August 03, 2023 By Ax Sharma 3 minute read time SHARE: This month, we analyzed a malicious PyPI package called ‘VMConnect,’ which has been designed to strongly resemble the legitimate VMware vSphere connector module, ‘ vConnector ,’ except it hides sinister code within. Assigned sonatype-2023-3387 and discovered by Sonatype’s automated detection systems last week, ‘VMConnect’ contains much the same code as its legitimate counterpart and has been downloaded 225 times , according to pepy.tech . While investigating this package, we discovered two other packages that emerged, “ ethter ” ( 251 downloads ) and “ quantiumbase ” ( 212 downloads ), bear an identical structure and technique and contain identical payload to the package in question. Within this brief timeframe of emerging packages, each with its distinct name and target, we discerned an ongoing campaign which we dubbed "PaperPin." This campaign is an enigma to unravel, as we explain below. VMConnect: A counterfeit VMware module The ‘VMConnect’ package appeared on the PyPI registry on July 28th – the same day it was spotted by us. It bears much the same description as the real VMware vSphere module: Image above: Fake ‘VMConnect’ package (left) and the legitimate ‘vconnector’ Python module (right) The ‘setup.py’ file within the malicious ‘VMConnect’ package loads the contents of ‘__init__.py’ file (line 8): This is where it gets interesting, whereas in the GitHub version ( archived ) of ‘VMConnect’, the __init__.py file contains just the version number, the release published to PyPI is starkly different. The __init__.py within the PyPI package, purportedly published by the same user (“hushki502”) runs base64-encoded code (line 25): Sonatype’s Senior Security Researcher Ankita Lamba who analyzed the counterfeit package stated that the encoded-string “retrieves data from an attacker-controlled URL and attempts to execute it on the host machine. This behavior is carried out every minute, infinitely.” The decoded string, shown below, comprises code to download the next level payload from the aforementioned attacker-controlled URL: hxxp://45.61.139[.]219/paperpin3902.jpg Do not be misled by the “.jpg” file extension of “paperpin3902.” The logic makes it clear that the retrieved file is not an image but likely contains the next stage payload. The “ethter” and “quantiumbase” packages contained similar code, shown below. Except, instead of connecting to the aforementioned IP address, these attempted to connect to URL, hxxps://ethertestnet[.]pro/paperpin3902.jpg (the domain in turn resolves to the same IP, 45.61.139[.]219). Due to the presence of “paperpin3902.jpg” in each of these packages, we are calling this campaign “PaperPin.” Unfortunately, at the time of our analysis, the file in question was removed from the external server and irretrievable from archives or threat intel sources, hindering further analysis. “Even though the second stage payload was unavailable for analysis at the time of research, the malicious intent behind this package is evidently clear,” said Lamba. “The decoded base64 string appears to be a beacon reaching out to a Command & Control server. An unsuspecting user’s machine would beacon out to the external IP address, downloading and executing malicious payloads every minute.” We reported the PyPI packages to the registry admins, and these were taken down. We also reached out to the user “hushki502” - the username listed on both the GitHub and PyPI version of the counterfeit package well in advance of publishing but have not heard back. VMware vSphere users should be diligent when it comes to obtaining the legitimate Python Connector module and refer to the project’s official documentation and repo for instructions. Tags: Open Source , PyPI , DevZone , Malware Analysis Written by Ax Sharma Ax is a Security Researcher at Sonatype and Engineer who holds a passion for perpetual learning. His works and expert analyses have frequently been featured by leading media outlets. Ax's expertise lies in security vulnerability research, reverse engineering, and software development. In his spare time, he loves exploiting vulnerabilities ethically and educating a wide range of audiences. Learn more on: AUTHOR POSTS TOPIC POSTS Top 10 open source projects hit by HTTP/2 'Rapid Reset' zero-day Ax Sharma npm packages caught exfiltrating Kubernetes config, SSH keys Ax Sharma New npm PoC packages target PayPal Zettle, Airbnb developers Ax Sharma Dependency mapping: A beginner's guide Open Source A guide for open source software (OSS) security Open Source Malicious PyPI package ‘VMConnect’ imitates VMware vSphere connector module Open Source Secure your software supply chain Explore Platform Get Started Platform Overview Firewall Repository Lifecycle Integrations Pricing Other Products Container Auditor Advanced Legal Pack Lifecycle Foundation Solutions By Role Integrated Innovation Developers Application Security Legal & Compliance By Industry Government Financial Services Manufacturing Technology Healthcare Community Free tools Nexus Repository OSS Sonatype OSS Index Sonatype Vulnerability Scanner Resources Launchpad Log4j Updates Blog Whitepapers & eBooks Webinars Customer Stories Partners Find a Partner Become a Partner Customer Portal Training & Workshops Documentation My Sonatype Customer Support Company About Careers Newsroom Investors Contact Press Kit Trust Center Subscribe for all the latest software security news and events Terms of Service Privacy Policy Modern Slavery Statement Event Terms and Conditions Do Not Sell My Personal Information Copyright © 2008-present, Sonatype Inc. All rights reserved. Includes the third-party code listed here. Sonatype and Sonatype Nexus are trademarks of Sonatype, Inc. Apache Maven and Maven are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. M2Eclipse is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.