Unveiling the Dangers of the "AnyDesk-Malcom" Malicious Python Package - Socket Huge news! Announcing our $20M Series A led by Andreessen Horowitz . Learn more → Product What is Socket? Socket for GitHub Detect suspicious packages in PRs Socket CLI Use Socket from the command line Socket Dependency Search Find any package for you project Resources Docs Want to read all the docs? Start here. Blog Keep up to date with all the news. Love See why developers love Socket. Customers Pricing go maven pypi Log in Demo Install Unveiling the Dangers of the "AnyDesk-Malcom" Malicious Python Package Socket AI detected a malicious package on PyPI that had an abnormally high potential impact and the Socket security researchers investigated finding malicious behavior. Socket Research Team August 23, 2023 At Socket, our commitment to security covers multiple package ecosystems—ranging from npm, Go, and PyPI—allowing developers to maintain an environment free from risks. Recent scans done by our Socket AI product and our security researchers have unveiled an interesting finding beyond our normal findings everyday. Unveiling the Dangers of the "AnyDesk-Malcom" After being alerted by Socket AI our security researchers took a closer look at a PyPI package anydesk-malcom and verified malicious behavior being performed by the package. This library was last released on the 14th of May 2022 just one day after the user Ritetransfer who performed the publication of the package created their account on the 13th of May 2022. This user has only published this package without any other apparent publications to PyPI. The project has been downloaded a total of 26,835 times. Over the last 7 days, the project has been downloaded 310 times. In the last 30 days, the project has received 1,662 downloads. These numbers indicated that this package had a much higher potential impact than other packages being flagged for malware and vulnerabilities than normal in our threat feed. Upon taking a glimpse into the script code, we observed that the script begins by importing essential modules and classes. At first glance it appears to be a normal package using setuptools and going through the normal setuptools.command.install workflow. However, unlike normal packages this one has installation was instead malware. The script introduces a custom installation process through the class "SneakyInstall," which extends the "install" class. This clever approach led to suspicions at something being tampered with in the installation pipeline. What's behind this enigmatic download? The script gets bold as it silently reaches out to a URL "https://peso-dolar.com/fiverr_nopassword/AnyDesk.zip" and authenticates with a password. The script then extracts the contents of the AnyDesk.zip file to disk. Once the contents are on disk, the script initiates launched "AnyDesk.exe", but what purpose does this serve? Unfortunately, the Zip is no longer available to download. Our team then performed threat intelligence to understand what’s a potential impact or potential impact if the file becomes available again. We noted that the URL from where the zip file is downloaded has already been marked malicious & associated with phishing frauds. Digging inside deeper at the public IP address we observed that the IP address is associated with the domain has been related to a multitude of malicious files. Also taking a historical view of the IP address it was observed that more than 10 malicious domains were associated with this IP address that were being flagged malicious by multiple vendors. shubeautybar.com.au www.shadowsoft-games.com www.cuisinealaresidence.com dxvmax.in www.idahouse4u.com magictools.in cocacolaluckydraw.com www.cocacolaluckydraw.com stem4climate.com 2o7kph.com ashleymeharg.com relentlessgladiator.com zouqjewels.com jetwayavia.com milanvice.com adultcontentcreatorclass.com kibrisx.com tropicalislandfarms.com thetalkofthetownmag.com billiondollarbeliefsystem.com We have already reported the malicious package to the registry and are continuing to protect against this and similar threats as we find them. Subscribe to our newsletter Get notified when we publish new security blog posts! Enter your email Subscribe Related posts Back to all posts Product Changelog Socket CLI v0.9.0 Now Available We just released v0.9.0 of the Socket CLI with some improvements to the socket info command so you can get useful information about an npm package, right in the terminal. By Charlie Gerard - Dec 01, 2023 Security News Fidelity National Financial Cyberattack Spotlights a Surge in Threat Activity Against Financial Services Industry The financial services sector has been hit by a recent surge of ransomware attacks, disrupting operations at major institutions such as Fidelity National Financial and the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China. These attacks underscore the importance of swift security measures in addressing vulnerabilities on enterprise systems. By Sarah Gooding - Dec 01, 2023 Application Security How Socket Combats Insidious Typosquatting Supply Chain Attacks Supply chain attacks that leverage typosquatting are steeply rising over previous years. Learn how Socket for GitHub and Socket CLI can protect your app. By Sarah Gooding - Nov 24, 2023 Product Package Issues Integrations Docs Pricing FAQ Roadmap About About Love Blog Glossary Discord Community Careers Hiring Send Feedback Contact Us System Status Packages npm Package Directory Explore npm Packages Go Package Directory Explore Go Packages Maven Package Directory Explore Maven Packages PyPi Package Directory Explore PyPi Packages Most Popular JS Packages Top JavaScript Maintainers Removed npm Packages Random npm Package Stay in touch Get open source security insights delivered straight into your inbox. Enter your email Subscribe Terms Privacy Security English Made with ⚡️ by Socket Inc