10 malicious PyPI packages found stealing developer's credentials News Featured Latest Staples confirms cyberattack behind service outages, delivery issues Black Basta ransomware made over $100 million from extortion Japanese Space Agency JAXA hacked in summer cyberattack Cactus ransomware exploiting Qlik Sense flaws to breach networks Over 20,000 vulnerable Microsoft Exchange servers exposed to attacks Google Chrome's new cache change could boost performance US Health Dept urges hospitals to patch critical Citrix Bleed bug Save $155 on this CompTIA certification exam prep super bundle Downloads Latest Most Downloaded Qualys BrowserCheck STOPDecrypter AuroraDecrypter FilesLockerDecrypter AdwCleaner ComboFix RKill Junkware Removal Tool VPNs Popular Best VPNs How to change IP address Access the dark web safely Best VPN for YouTube Virus Removal Guides Latest Most Viewed Ransomware Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide) How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions) How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ Tutorials Latest Popular How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11 How to use the Windows Registry Editor How to backup and restore the Windows Registry How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator How to start Windows in Safe Mode How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware How to show hidden files in Windows 7 How to see hidden files in Windows Deals Categories eLearning IT Certification Courses Gear + Gadgets Security Forums More Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Chat on Discord Send us a Tip! Welcome Guide Home News Security 10 malicious PyPI packages found stealing developer's credentials 10 malicious PyPI packages found stealing developer's credentials By Bill Toulas August 9, 2022 01:02 PM 0 Threat analysts have discovered ten malicious Python packages on the PyPI repository, used to infect developer's systems with password-stealing malware. The fake packages used typosquatting to impersonate popular software projects and trick PyPI users into downloading them. PyPI (Python Package Index) is a repository of over 350,000 open-source software packages that millions of registered users can easily incorporate into their Python projects and build complex products with minimal effort. Malware operators take advantage of the platform's open nature and frequently upload malicious or fake packages to compromise developers' systems. From there, the threat actors target the developers and their assets for supply-chain attacks, steal proprietary source code, or look for potential pivoting points in the software development environment. Ten Pypi packages used to steal credentials The malicious PyPi packages discovered by CheckPoint and outlined in a new report are: Ascii2text – Mimicking "art," a popular ASCII Art Library for Python, Ascii2text uses the same description minus the release details. Its code fetches a malicious script that searches for local passwords and exfiltrates them via a Discord webhook. Fake and real package comparison (CheckPoint) Pyg-utils, Pymocks, PyProto2 – All three packages target AWS credentials and appear very similar to another set of packages discovered by Sonatype in June . The first even connects to the same domain ("pygrata.com"), while the other two target "pymocks.com". Test-async – Package with a vague description that fetches malicious code from a remote resource and notifies a Discord channel that a new infection has been established. Free-net-vpn and Free-net-vpn2 – User credential harvester published to a site mapped by a dynamic DNS mapping service. Free-net-vpn installation script (CheckPoint) Zlibsrc – Mimicking the zlib project, this package contains a script that downloads and runs a malicious file from an external source. Browserdiv – Package targeting the credentials of web design programmers. Uses Discord webhooks for data exfiltration. Browserdiv installation script (CheckPoint) WINRPCexploit – A credential-stealing package that promises to automate the exploitation of the Windows RPC vulnerability. However, when executed, the package will upload the server's environment variables, which commonly contain credentials, to a remote site under the attacker's control. Although the discovered packages were reported by CheckPoint and removed from PyPI, software developers that downloaded them on their systems could still be at risk. If you have downloaded and used any of the above packages, consider yourself compromised and take appropriate action. In many cases, the malicious packages laid the ground for possible supply chain attacks, so the developer's computer may just be the initial point of a widespread infection, and code should be audited for malicious code. It is important to remember that no package in PyPI comes with security guarantees, and users are responsible for scrutinizing names, release histories, submission details, homepage links, and download numbers. All these elements collectively can help determine if a Python package is trustworthy or potentially malicious. Related Articles: Hundreds of malicious Python packages found stealing sensitive data Atomic Stealer malware strikes macOS via fake browser updates Malware dev says they can revive expired Google auth cookies How to boost Security with Self-Service Password Resets Google ads push malicious CPU-Z app from fake Windows news site Credentials Information Stealer Malware Passwords PyPI Python Bill Toulas Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks. Previous Article Next Article Post a Comment Community Rules You need to login in order to post a comment Not a member yet? Register Now You may also like: Popular Stories Over 20,000 vulnerable Microsoft Exchange servers exposed to attacks Hackers use new Agent Raccoon malware to backdoor US targets Follow us: Main Sections News VPN Buyer Guides Downloads Virus Removal Guides Tutorials Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Community Forums Forum Rules Chat Useful Resources Welcome Guide Sitemap Company About BleepingComputer Contact Us Send us a Tip! Advertising Write for BleepingComputer Social & Feeds Changelog Terms of Use - Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure Copyright @ 2003 - 2023 Bleeping Computer ® LLC - All Rights Reserved Login Username Password Remember Me Sign in anonymously Sign in with Twitter Not a member yet? Register Now Reporter Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment? Spam Abusive or Harmful Inappropriate content Strong language Other Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited. Submitting... SUBMIT