Trojanized PyPI Package Imitates a Popular Python Server Library Skip
    Navigation Back Platform Platform overview Automate your software supply chain security Sonatype Repository Firewall Block malicious open source at the door Sonatype Nexus Repository Build fast with centralized components Sonatype Lifecycle Control open source risk across your SDLC Why Sonatype Power every innovation with quality data Integrations Work in the tools, languages, and packages you already use Pricing Simple and predictable pricing model that fits your company Solutions Integrated Innovation Align dev, security, and ops teams to fuel secure deployment Developers Deliver quality code fast Application Security Manage vulnerability risks Legal & Compliance Enforce policy at scale By Industry Government Financial Services Manufacturing Technology Healthcare Pricing Resources Resources Featured The Forrester Wave™ Software Composition Analysis Featured State of the Software Supply Chain Report Launchpad Whitepapers & eBooks Webinars Blog Customer Stories DevZone Free Tools Sonatype Repository OSS Sonatype OSS Index Sonatype Vulnerability Scanner Customer Resources Training & Workshops My Sonatype Documentation Support Partners Become a Partner Join our extensive Sonatype  Partner Network Find a Partner Find and connect with a certified Sonatype partner Company About Explore our software supply chain management story Careers Innovate with us—explore opportunities at Sonatype Events Attend in-person or virtual learning events Newsroom Keep up to date on Sonatype in the news Contact Let’s talk software supply chain Book a Demo Book a Demo Book a Demo Trojanized PyPI Package Imitates a Popular Python Server Library February 27, 2022 By Ax Sharma 8 minute read time SHARE: Sonatype has once again discovered a malicious Python package called ' aiohttp-socks5 ' —this time imitating a massively popular middleware library. But instead, this package drops a Remote Access Trojan (RAT) that compromises your system completely. The legitimate AIOHTTP library is a popular asynchronous HTTP Client/Server for the asyncio library and Python-based applications. The component receives over 9 million weekly downloads on average. AIOHTTP powers famous sites like Yandex , Skyscanner , Farmer Business Network , among others, and has been used to build commonly used libraries, which explains why would threat actors capitalize on the opportunity to ship counterfeit versions of AIOHTTP. For developers looking to make AIOHTTP work with SOCKS4/SOCKS5 proxies, maintainers of AIOHTTP recommend using the aiohttp-socks component. But this week, Sonatype's automated malware detection systems came across a counterfeit component named aiohttp-socks5 , claiming itself to be a "proxy connector for aiohttp," which is far from the case. Instead, aiohttp-socks5 is spyware primarily targeting Windows 64-bit users , with some versions of the component capable of also running on Linux, Termux , and macOS systems. Sources indicate 'aiohttp-socks5' has been retrieved over 2,200 times since its publication, both in form of user-initiated downloads and by automated mirrors. The malicious 'aiohttp-socks5' had 11 versions when discovered, with different versions conducting varied levels of malicious activity. The first version of 'aiohttp-socks5' (0.7.1) largely appears to be benign, borrowing skeleton code from the legitimate aiohttp-socks package. But subsequent versions are spyware packed with malicious trojans. Fake 'metadata' field packs malicious EXE Starting with version 0.8.1 of 'aiohttp-socks5' we see the setup.py manifest file containing a sneaky 'metadata' field toward the end: This so-called 'metadata' variable contains a long string value that spans hundreds of lines. Essentially, the 'metadata' field is just a ploy to pack a base64-encoded malicious EXE file. The field is further followed by code that decodes this string value, saves it into an EXE file, "pip_installer.exe" and runs this executable: Fortunately, at the time of our analysis, 'pip_installer.exe' is a known malicious program flagged by around 45% of leading antivirus engines . Extensive remote control & surveillance capabilities As soon as 'aiohttp-socks5' is installed, the malicious executable, 'pip_installer.exe' runs automatically and drops more malicious executables with capabilities ranging from file upload/download and encryption/decryption to remote system control and the ability to take screenshots, gather files, cookies, credentials, and exfiltrate data. The 'pip_installer.exe' conducts the following suspicious tasks: Disables proxy settings by altering the 'ProxyEnable' setting in the Windows registry at: HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Internet Settings . Drops malicious executables including " dwm.exe ," aka "smss.exe," a known remote access trojan (RAT) (also analyzed on any.run ) with extensive remote control and surveillance capabilities, such as the ability to control hardware peripherals including CD drives, or initiating system shutdowns: Creates scheduled tasks to achieve persistence Steals SQLite databases from web browsers with entire cookie values , session information, saved passwords, and forms/credit card data: Makes frequent requests to Russia-based command and control (C2) server: dcrat[.]host (IP: 155.248.240.251 ). Depending on the GET parameters sent to the dcrat[.]host domain, the server returns a base64-packed object that is then parsed by the malicious EXE: Launches Telegram and connects to Telegram API possibly to exfiltrate data and sensitive information from the infected system. Has features to detect security products , and evade analysis in sandboxes and virtual machine (VM) environments. Also targets macOS, Linux & Termux While the first few malicious versions of 'aiohttp-socks5' outright launched a malicious EXE only on Windows systems, subsequent versions pack no malicious binary within and are cross-platform. These versions check the operating system you are on — Windows, Linux, macOS or Termux, and await further payload from the C2 server: Versions 0.8.6 to 0.8.9 fingerprint the device information—the operating system, OS version, CPU information, current username, and local domain, and upload this information to the following endpoint: http://144.24.115[.]170:8080/info?data=... Depending on the fingerprinted information received by the server, and if the malware is running for the very first time on the infected machine (indicated by the "first_run" field), the server sends further instructions (as a base64-encoded payload) to execute on the infected system. In one of our test runs, the endpoint returned code to fetch and run another suspicious EXE, ' main.exe .' The decoded (base64) payload returned from the endpoint is shown below: Ongoing attacks on open source registries This week's discovery follows recent developments of fishy jquery-lh library found on npm , malicious Roblox cookie and Discord token stealers hitting PyPI , and an attack campaign flooding PyPI with over 1,200 dependency confusion packages identified by Sonatype. Provided all these incidents occurring in a short span of time, as well as February's spam attack on three major repos: npm, PyPI, and NuGet, we have no reason to believe such attacks on open source ecosystem will slow down anytime in near future. We reported our findings to PyPI who have now taken down the malicious package. In addition to discovering the counterfeit component 'aiohttp-socks5' this week on the PyPI registry, we additionally discovered 4 dependency confusion copycat packages by a separate authors, that we also reported to PyPI: Users of Nexus Firewall can rest easy knowing that such malicious packages would automatically be blocked from reaching their development builds. Nexus Firewall instances will automatically quarantine any suspicious components detected by our automated malware detection systems while a manual review by a researcher is in the works, thereby keeping your software supply chain protected from the start. Furthermore, Sonatype’s customers with the Advance Development Pack benefit from the additional protection offered by our automated malware detection systems and world-class security research data. Sonatype’s world-class security research data, combined with our automated malware detection technology safeguards your developers, customers, and software supply chain from infections. Tags: vulnerabilities , Nexus Firewall , python , PyPI , featured , DevZone Written by Ax Sharma Ax is a Security Researcher at Sonatype and Engineer who holds a passion for perpetual learning. His works and expert analyses have frequently been featured by leading media outlets. Ax's expertise lies in security vulnerability research, reverse engineering, and software development. In his spare time, he loves exploiting vulnerabilities ethically and educating a wide range of audiences. Learn more on: AUTHOR POSTS TOPIC POSTS Top 10 open source projects hit by HTTP/2 'Rapid Reset' zero-day Ax Sharma npm packages caught exfiltrating Kubernetes config, SSH keys Ax Sharma New npm PoC packages target PayPal Zettle, Airbnb developers Ax Sharma Dependency mapping: A beginner's guide vulnerabilities Open source risk management: Safeguarding software integrity vulnerabilities A closer look: Differentiating software vulnerabilities and malware vulnerabilities Secure your software supply chain Explore Platform Get Started Platform Overview Firewall Repository Lifecycle Integrations Pricing Other Products Container Auditor Advanced Legal Pack Lifecycle Foundation Solutions By Role Integrated Innovation Developers Application Security Legal & Compliance By Industry Government Financial Services Manufacturing Technology Healthcare Community Free tools Nexus Repository OSS Sonatype OSS Index Sonatype Vulnerability Scanner Resources Launchpad Log4j Updates Blog Whitepapers & eBooks Webinars Customer Stories Partners Find a Partner Become a Partner Customer Portal Training & Workshops Documentation My Sonatype Customer Support Company About Careers Newsroom Investors Contact Press Kit Trust Center Subscribe for all the latest software security news and events Terms of Service Privacy Policy Modern Slavery Statement Event Terms and Conditions Do Not Sell My Personal Information Copyright © 2008-present, Sonatype Inc. All rights reserved. Includes the third-party code listed here. Sonatype and Sonatype Nexus are trademarks of Sonatype, Inc. Apache Maven and Maven are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. M2Eclipse is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.