Malicious PyPi packages create CloudFlare Tunnels to bypass firewalls News Featured Latest Staples confirms cyberattack behind service outages, delivery issues Black Basta ransomware made over $100 million from extortion Japanese Space Agency JAXA hacked in summer cyberattack Cactus ransomware exploiting Qlik Sense flaws to breach networks Over 20,000 vulnerable Microsoft Exchange servers exposed to attacks Google Chrome's new cache change could boost performance US Health Dept urges hospitals to patch critical Citrix Bleed bug Save $155 on this CompTIA certification exam prep super bundle Downloads Latest Most Downloaded Qualys BrowserCheck STOPDecrypter AuroraDecrypter FilesLockerDecrypter AdwCleaner ComboFix RKill Junkware Removal Tool VPNs Popular Best VPNs How to change IP address Access the dark web safely Best VPN for YouTube Virus Removal Guides Latest Most Viewed Ransomware Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide) How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions) How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ Tutorials Latest Popular How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11 How to use the Windows Registry Editor How to backup and restore the Windows Registry How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator How to start Windows in Safe Mode How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware How to show hidden files in Windows 7 How to see hidden files in Windows Deals Categories eLearning IT Certification Courses Gear + Gadgets Security Forums More Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Chat on Discord Send us a Tip! Welcome Guide Home News Security Malicious PyPi packages create CloudFlare Tunnels to bypass firewalls Malicious PyPi packages create CloudFlare Tunnels to bypass firewalls By Bill Toulas January 7, 2023 10:12 AM 0 Six malicious packages on PyPI, the Python Package Index, were found installing information-stealing and RAT (remote access trojan) malware while using Cloudflare Tunnel to bypass firewall restrictions for remote access. The malicious packages attempt to steal sensitive user information stored in browsers, run shell commands, and use keyloggers to steal typed secrets. The six packages were discovered by the Phylum research team , who closely monitors PyPI for emerging campaigns. The researchers report that these malicious extensions first appeared on the package repository on December 22. The threat actors continued to upload other packages until the last day of the year. The six malicious packages that Phylum detected are the following: pyrologin – 165 downloads easytimestamp – 141 downloads discorder – 83 downloads discord-dev – 228 downloads style.py – 193 downloads pythonstyles – 130 downloads All of the packages have now been removed from PyPI, but those who downloaded them will have to manually uninstall the remnants of the infection, most notably the persistence mechanisms. Information-stealer functionality The installer (setup.py) on these files contains a base64-encoded string that decodes to a PowerShell script. This script sets the '-ErrorAction SilentlyContinue' flag so that the script will silently continue, even if it runs into errors, to avoid detection by developers. The PowerShell script will download a ZIP file from a remote resource, unzip it on a local temp directory and then install a list of dependencies and additional Python packages that make remote control and screenshot capturing possible. Two additional packages are silently installed during that stage called 'flask' and 'flask_cloudflared.' One of the files in the ZIP, "server.pyw," launches four threads, one to establish persistence between system reboots, one to ping a proxied onion site, one to start a keystroke logger, and one to steal data from the compromised machine. The stolen data includes cryptocurrency wallets, browser cookies and passwords, Telegram data, Discord tokens, and more. This data is zipped up and transmitted through transfer[.]sh to the attackers, while a ping to the onion site confirms the completion of the info-stealing step. Fourth thread performs the data-stealing (Phylum) Also a remote access trojan The script now runs "cftunnel.py," also included in the ZIP archive, that is used to install a Cloudflare Tunnel client on the victim's machine. Cloudflare Tunnel is a service offering that allows customers, even free accounts, to create a bidirectional tunnel from a server directly to the Cloudflare infrastructure. This connection allows web servers to quickly become publicly available through Cloudflare without configuring firewalls, opening ports, or dealing with other routing issues. The threat actors use this tunnel to remotely access a remote access trojan running on the infected device as the 'Flask' script, even if a firewall protects that device. The Flask app used by the attackers, also known as "xrat," can steal the victim's username and IP address, run shell commands on the breached machine, exfiltrate specific files and directories, execute Python code, or download and launch additional payloads. This RAT also supports a "live" remote desktop feed at a one-frame-per-second rate, which activates as soon as the victim types something or moves their mouse. Live remote feed (Phylum) This new set of apps uploaded in the PyPI proves that the threats on the platform are evolving, becoming more innovative and potent. Unfortunately, removing the packages and banning the accounts that uploaded them on PyPI does not stop the threat actors, as they can return to action using new names. Furthermore, even if the apps are removed from PyPi, they are still on infected devices, requiring developers to remove them manually. If these malicious packages infected you, it is strongly recommended that you perform an antivirus scan and then change all passwords at websites you frequently visit. Related Articles: Atomic Stealer malware strikes macOS via fake browser updates Malware dev says they can revive expired Google auth cookies Google ads push malicious CPU-Z app from fake Windows news site Hackers backdoor Russian state, industrial orgs for data theft Discord still a hotbed of malware activity — Now APTs join the fun Cloudflare Cloudflare Tunnel Information Stealer Malware PyPI RAT Remote Access Trojan Bill Toulas Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks. Previous Article Next Article Post a Comment Community Rules You need to login in order to post a comment Not a member yet? Register Now You may also like: Popular Stories Over 20,000 vulnerable Microsoft Exchange servers exposed to attacks Hackers use new Agent Raccoon malware to backdoor US targets Follow us: Main Sections News VPN Buyer Guides Downloads Virus Removal Guides Tutorials Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Community Forums Forum Rules Chat Useful Resources Welcome Guide Sitemap Company About BleepingComputer Contact Us Send us a Tip! Advertising Write for BleepingComputer Social & Feeds Changelog Terms of Use - Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure Copyright @ 2003 - 2023 Bleeping Computer ® LLC - All Rights Reserved Login Username Password Remember Me Sign in anonymously Sign in with Twitter Not a member yet? Register Now Reporter Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment? Spam Abusive or Harmful Inappropriate content Strong language Other Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited. Submitting... SUBMIT