
Multiple Drivers to Digitize
Building citizen trust: easy, convenient user access helps more people engage with key services. Doing so securely by safeguarding their personally identifiable information (PII) is an imperative to build trust. In uncertain times, when state and local government is playing a key role giving citizens advice and financial support, this trust is incredibly important for the safe functioning of society.
Cost savings: digitally delivered services are more cost-effective to run, requiring fewer human resources and reducing the need for physical municipal spaces.
Efficiency gains: by deploying more automation, agencies and educational institutions can increase efficiency and free up employee time to devote to higher value activities.
Innovation and insight: digital citizen services enable the easy collection of large amounts of data about how such services are used by the population. Agencies can analyze this to better predict future demand and identify key improvements and innovation opportunities in public services.
Citizen Expectations are Driven by Consumer Experiences
Digitization Introduces More Cybersecurity Risk
Application Security Testing helps Public Sector Developer Teams Deliver Secure Digital Services at Pace
Integration into preferred IDEs: developers do not need to change or interrupt their workflows, but receive scan results back into their customary IDE, together with information on best-fix locations for identified vulnerabilities. View Checkmarx integrations here. >>
Automation: by automatically initiating code scans at key points during the development cycle, the burden on developers is lifted and security becomes intrinsic to coding. This applies to both proprietary code and open source libraries, resulting in more secure applications.
Easier adoption: it is an intuitive solution more readily adopted by developers because it delivers results without impeding their preferred way of working.
Reduces the accumulation of technical debt: by scanning for vulnerabilities earlier in the SDLC they are identified sooner, when they are easier and less time-consuming to fix. This reduces technical debt and eases pressure on production deadlines.
Improves compliance: Checkmarx provides out-of-the-box compliance with the key standards mentioned above, as well as supporting advanced custom queries that can be tailored for specific use cases.
Offers secure coding education: Checkmarx Codebashing offering allows teams to learn-as-they-go, with bite-size on-demand sessions that relate to the actual challenges they are facing in their code. Agencies get more from their existing development teams without having to commit limited time or large training budgets to the issue.
Striking a Safe Balance Between Service Personalization and Data Security