
We are thrilled to announce that we have been recognized as a Strong Performer in The Forrester Wave™: Software Composition Analysis, Q2 2023. We believe this is a testament to our ongoing commitment to providing top-tier solutions for software composition analysis.
Forrester evaluated the 12 top  SCA providers against 32 criteria grouped into three categories: Current Offering, Strategy, and Market Presence. The report states that SCA customers should look for providers that help developers remediate vulnerabilities and keeping libraries up to date, manage license risk, and strengthen the software supply chain.
According to the report, “Checkmarx execution is impressive; it’s brought all the products under one cloud platform while also enhancing SCA and launching software supply chain security.”
Checkmarx SCA received the highest possible score (5.0) in seven total criteria:
Security developer education
Malicious package detection
Prioritization
IaC scanning
Execution roadmap
Innovation
Supporting services and offerings
We recently announced the availability of Supply Chain Threat Intelligence™, which delivers detailed threat intelligence on hundreds of thousands of malicious packages, contributor reputation, malicious behavior and more.
Additionally, developer education remains a focus with the support of Checkmarx Codebashing, which offers short, engaging lessons accessible directly from the developer’s IDE of choice.
We are proud of this recognition and remain committed to providing our customers with top-tier software composition analysis solutions. We believe that our position in The Forrester Wave™: Software Composition Analysis, Q2 2023, underscores our commitment to enabling enterprises to shift everywhere to secure every phase of development for every application while simultaneously balancing the dynamic needs of CISOs, security teams, and development teams.
We would like to thank our customers for their continued support and feedback, which helps us improve and deliver even more functionality and scanning power on the industry’s most comprehensive and innovative cloud-native platform, Checkmarx One™.
