
In 2021, we shifted everything online with the new ‘Work from Anywhere’ culture that emerged during the global COVID-19 crisis, making applications and software an inevitable and expanding part of the Information Technology domain.
Today’s Application Security (AppSec) measures focus on protecting web applications. These measures include methods of preventing data or code within the application from being compromised or hijacked. AppSec is an essential part of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and ensuring that applications are secured must be a top priority in today’s ever evolving and expanding digital landscape.
For example, out of all the external attack methods, exploiting software vulnerabilities are the most common approach used by intruders, making vulnerabilities a weak link in the cyber security ecosystem. According to Verizon’s 2020 Data Breach Investigations Report, web applications are a top hacking vector in data breaches as shown below.
Organizations today need to ensure their AppSec approach has evolved beyond the antiquated practice of trying to protect vulnerable web applications with hardware and software technologies designed to block malicious traffic from the outside-in.
With the massive rise of cybercrimes and use of sophisticated attack methodologies, the old AppSec approach is collapsing. For decades, the Web Application Firewall (WAF) was considered an effective security control. However, many believe it is depleting in terms of its effectiveness. Most WAF technologies, regardless of how they are deployed, depend on a list of rules, for example, OWASP ModSecurity Core Rule Set, which is simply not enough to fully protect vulnerable applications.
On the flip side, Static Application Security Testing (SAST) solutions are gaining pace. Generally, WAF can monitor all the network traffic from the OSI layer up to the Application layer. Contrastingly, SAST has a more direct approach as it focuses on the substratum of the application – the source code itself! Organizations must focus on the coding errors that lead to vulnerable applications, and this is where SAST comes into the equation.
Checkmarx SAST (CxSAST) is an enterprise-grade flexible and accurate static code analysis solution that scans at the source code level and is used to identify security vulnerabilities in custom code. It basically involves the integration of the static code scanning at various stages of the SDLC. The remediation of software vulnerabilities becomes effective and rapid when raw chunks of source code can be scanned. Once scanned, CxSAST returns with remediation guidance in the form of best fix location so developers can quickly fix coding issues.
One of the major advantages of CxSAST over WAF is its ability to identify vulnerable junctions in the application code. Following are the plus points CxSAST provides over the traditional WAF:
Total Cost of Ownership  Compared to the continuous WAF management, rule tuning, and updates, CxSAST requires minimal maintenance, saving your employees precious time.

Compared to the continuous WAF management, rule tuning, and updates, CxSAST requires minimal maintenance, saving your employees precious time.
Better ROI  Since CxSAST can detect vulnerabilities during the code, check-in, and build stages of the SDLC, it saves organizations time, money, and resources. It also minimizes the need for post-release patches and security updates.

Since CxSAST can detect vulnerabilities during the code, check-in, and build stages of the SDLC, it saves organizations time, money, and resources. It also minimizes the need for post-release patches and security updates.
False Positives do not affect Performance  Unlike WAF, false positives can be addressed with ease in CxSAST using adjustable queries. In WAF, false positives can result in a visitor being blocked, unless the rule is disabled or placed in detect-only mode.

Unlike WAF, false positives can be addressed with ease in CxSAST using adjustable queries. In WAF, false positives can result in a visitor being blocked, unless the rule is disabled or placed in detect-only mode.
Educational Advantage and Improvement of Coding Standards  When implementing CxSAST, both the development and the testing teams are a part of the security validation process which promotes AppSec awareness and enhances the developer’s secure coding skills.

When implementing CxSAST, both the development and the testing teams are a part of the security validation process which promotes AppSec awareness and enhances the developer’s secure coding skills.
Not limited only to web applications  Unlike WAF, CxSAST can test many different types of code found in mobile applications, software on embedded devices, etc. It also supports a long list of development languages and frameworks.

Unlike WAF, CxSAST can test many different types of code found in mobile applications, software on embedded devices, etc. It also supports a long list of development languages and frameworks.
In conclusion, we can undoubtedly say that WAF is limited in its ability to adequately protect vulnerable web applications on its own. However, WAF can be used as a complementary security control coupled with more sophisticated tools like CxSAST that finds vulnerabilities “before” code is deployed, allowing developers to fix the issues earlier in the SDLC.
RNS Technology Services, a leading multinational cyber security value-added reseller and system integrator, brings to our readers a special and limited period offer on the Checkmarx CxSAST Application Security Testing solution.To learn more about RNS and CxSAST: https://www.rnstechnology.com/checkmarx-sast/
About the Author:Sameer ZamaChannel & Marketing Manager At RNS Technology Servicehttps://www.linkedin.com/in/sameer-zama/ Experienced Senior Channel & Marketing Manager with a demonstrated history of working in Event Management & Cyber Security industry. Skilled in Lead Generation, Automation, Business Planning, Oracle Database, Sales, and Microsoft dynamics Customer Relationship Management (CRM) expert. Strong technology professional with a focused mindset.