
The Difference Between Traditional AppSec and Cloud-Native Security
More Code to Worry About, but Easier to Audit
Infrastructure-as-Code (IaC)
The Joint Security Agreement
What is "Shift Center," and Why Should Security Teams Care?
Best Practices for Secure App Development on AWS
Make testing intrinsic to the whole SDLC. Don't assume any portion of your codebase is intrinsically secure, whether proprietary or open source. Thoroughly evaluate every line of code from the onset of development to ensure that you address all vulnerabilities that will leave you exposed to risk. As you add new features and functionality to applications, ensure new code is as secure as all other software components.
Test IaC. Just as you diligently test and secure applications, you must do the same with IaC by ensuring every component is secure. These components include third-party APIs, which are commonly used to build software but can introduce various vulnerabilities into the environment. Checkmarx KiCS can help you find security vulnerabilities, compliance issues, and infrastructure misconfigurations in your AWS Infrastructure-as-Code solutions.Learn more about how Checkmarx made KICS, our open source solution to keep infrastructure-a-code secure.
Understand cloud-native AppSec requirements. Ultimately, wherever you write code, the challenges are the same. Yet, your attack surface is more significant in the cloud as cloud-native development introduces new locations, new outputs, and new types of code. Therefore, organizations need an AppSec toolkit that helps customers prepare a secure hand-off of code to deployment.
Be ready to build in the cloud. Just as most organizations are shifting to AWS for their application runtime and services, many also choose to take advantage of AWS developer tools like AWS CodeBuild and CodePipeline to provide software build test and deployment services. Indeed, the appeal of limitless scale and pay-as-you-go is just as attractive for a software build function as for the resulting application, if not more so. Be sure your security tools are ready for this shift, too, and can deliver the code analysis you need, no matter where you code.