
AWS Marketplace Simplifies Procurement of Trusted Third-Party Solutions
New Checkmarx Public Offer Available on AWS Marketplace
Buying Through AWS Marketplace to Accelerate your AppSec Program
Streamline approvals: Third parties on AWS Marketplace leverage customers’ existing relationships with AWS to make procurement fast and friction-free. Quotes generated on AWS appear directly in their account and can be accepted in a single click, with legal agreements attached, so teams can get up and running faster.
Simplified billing and spending review: all billing is a line item on the customer’s AWS invoice. They don’t have to set up a new supplier, and they have complete visibility over their spending in a single location.
Use AWS committed spend to invest in application security testing: It’s common for organizations to have multi-year enterprise discount program (EDP) commitments with AWS that have set timeframes for specific expenditure levels. So, teams looking for an application security solution can retire 50% of their investment in Checkmarx against their committed spending.
Unlock budgets during financial uncertainty: The option to procure Checkmarx using allocated AWS spend makes for an easier conversation with cost-conscious finance departments. Best-in-class application security protects that business against the financial and reputational impacts of a cybersecurity breach or compliance failure, and cost-effective procurement to utilize pre-allocated spend minimizes objections.
Work with consulting partners: if the organization has a preferred consulting partner, they don’t need to change their work; the partner can procure Checkmarx on the customer’s behalf.
Benefit from custom terms and pricing: We know that application security is not a one-size-fits-all deal. That’s why our private offer can deliver custom terms where required, and we offer flexible options like multi-year contracts.
Checkmarx and AWS – a Partnership of Shared Values
Curious to Learn More?
Related Resources