
We’re thrilled to announce that Checkmarx has been named a Leader in the 2023 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing1 (AST) for the 6th consecutive year based on our Ability to Execute and Completeness of Vision.
This year’s recognition is particularly meaningful to us given the extensive effort we’ve made in ensuring our AST solutions meet customer needs as they transition to the cloud.
As stated by our CEO, Sandeep Johri, “Today’s enterprise is called to ever higher security standards, and application security is becoming increasingly critical with the move to the cloud in service of digital transformation. Time is short, demands for new and improved applications are intense, and threats continue to evolve, putting a powerful, comprehensive, and assisted AppSec approach at the top of many CISOs’ priority lists.”
In other words, application security testing solutions that “shift everywhere” to address the broadening risk landscape are no longer a nice to have, but rather a must-have — especially when it comes to digital transformation. It’s imperative to protect every part of modern applications: that’s where the Checkmarx OneTM Application Security Platform comes in.
Purpose-built for cloud-native application development, Checkmarx One provides all of the capabilities that organizations need in order to shift everywhere and better secure their applications, including SAST, SCA, SCS, DAST, API Security, IaC Security, and Container Security — all on a single unified platform.
Aside from offering AST solutions that cover every phase of the software development life cycle (SDLC), Checkmarx One also offers many capabilities that help overburdened AppSec teams prioritize where to focus their remediation efforts. For example, our Fusion engine correlates SAST with SCA scans to identify and prioritize vulnerabilities in open source software that are not just present, but actually exploitable in your application. With the recent launch of DAST on Checkmarx One, Fusion can also now integrate API Security with DAST to discover and test shadow APIs missed by other DAST solutions.
But it’s not enough just to find security issues; you have to fix them too. That’s why we’ve dedicated significant resources to providing a seamless developer experience that ties into their existing workflows. Developers particularly benefit from our:
IDE integration: Checkmarx integrates with the most popular IDEs so that developers can see scan results in their preferred IDE instead of having to learn and use another tool.
Unified scanning: Developers can trigger a single scan for SAST, SCA, API Security, and IaC Security directly from the IDE or automatically with the pull request.
Best-fix location and guided remediation: Checkmarx guides developers to the exact line of code to implement a fix for a security vulnerability.
Feedback tool integration: AppSec teams can automatically log bug tickets for discovered vulnerabilities (in JIRA or other feedback tools) to put security in the language of the developer.
Codebashing: Developers can undergo gamified secure code training in the coding language of their choice.
Demonstrated by our products and, we feel, confirmed by our positioning in the Leaders Quadrant in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for AST, Checkmarx is laser-focused on helping our customers secure their modern applications and future-proof against the ever-evolving technological landscape. With 17+ years of innovation in AST, we remain committed and intensely passionate about delivering powerful solutions to organizations that thrive on the software they develop. As promised by Sandeep, “Checkmarx will continue to drive the evolution of robust, effective AppSec solutions while helping the enterprise reduce risk as they ‘shift everywhere.’”
Thank you to our incredible customers, partners, and employees who have been, and will continue to be, the cornerstone of our success.
Ready to learn more?
Download a complimentary copy of the 2023 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing or visit us online for additional information on Checkmarx One.
1 Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing, Mark Horvath, Dale Gardner, Manjunath Bhat, Ravisha Chugh, Angela Zhao, 17 May 2023.
Gartner Disclaimer:
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally, and MAGIC QUADRANT is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates and are used herein with permission. All rights reserved.