
Introduction
Vulnerability Overview
Severity
What’s Going On – Understanding the Dubbo Protocol
Telnet-like mode, where a CLI is available to allow invoking a method exposed by the provider service
An RMI mode, where the TCP packet is then treated as a byte stream, which is deserialized to be used with the service offered by the Dubbo provider
Fig. 1 - Dubbo Telnet
Two magic bytes – 0xdabb
A flag byte – this flag determines:  If this stream is a request or a response If this transaction is one-way or two-way Deserialization mechanism identifier (Hessian2, Kryo, Java etc.)

If this stream is a request or a response
If this transaction is one-way or two-way
Deserialization mechanism identifier (Hessian2, Kryo, Java etc.)
Padding null-bytes, to allow for dynamic length
Length of stream
Dubbo Protocol version
Service name (“Path”)
Service version
Method name
Method argument types
Method arguments
Request attachments, which may contain additional data
Fig. 2 – Dubbo telnetd Service, As It Appears on Nmap
Fig. 3 – Dubbo Protocol Request in Its Default Serialized Form
Fig. 4 – Dubbo Protocol Response in Dubbo Demo
Fig. 5 – Dubbo Protocol Breakdown
Attacking the Dubbo Protocol
FST Serialization
Kryo Serialization
Fig. 6 – The Majestic, Feral Beauty of a Kryo-Serialized FastJSON Gadget ByteStream
Recreating the Issue
Proof-of-Concept
Recreating a Victim Dubbo Instance for PoC
Follow the Official Apache Dubbo Quick-Start guide until a functioning provider and registry are successfully created (see here for a full sample)
Ensure dubbo-common, or a package where this dependency is not optional, are in scope
Triggering Vulnerability PoC
Fig. 7 – Deserialization Gadget Writes “whoops!” to Java Console, and Starts Calc.exe
Vulnerability Evolution
Conclusions
Recommendations
Upgrade from Alibaba Dubbo to Apache Dubbo; Alibaba Dubbo does not appear to be officially maintained any longer
Update Apache Dubbo to its latest version
Ensure to never import unnecessary Dubbo packages, e.g. dubbo-serialization-kryo where Kryo is not actively used, to reduce attack surface against the RMI interface
Disclosure Timeline
Apache Package Versions
Alibaba Package Versions
Final Words