
I am pleased to announce that Checkmarx has been recognized by Gartner® Peer Insights™ as a Customers’ Choice for Application Security Testing (AST) for the fourth consecutive year. We are the only vendor to have earned this distinction every year since the Peer Insights Customers’ Choice category debuted in 2019. We are also the only vendor to be named a Customers’ Choice across all three segments: North America and Asia Pacific Deployment Regions, as well as Midsize Enterprise Company Size.
This award is a testament to our customer-first mentality. As our CEO, Emmanuel Benzaquen explained, “No honor, award, or distinction means as much to us as the good opinion of our customers. Everyone at Checkmarx is focused on helping organizations secure the code on which the world runs, and our customers’ needs, experiences, and successes have always, and will always, drive our continuing innovation.”
Reviews and feedback from customers like you help us tailor our products and services and direct our future development. In fact, your feedback on the pain point of shadow and zombie APIs inspired our recent launch of Checkmarx API Security which solves these issues by discovering all APIs that exist in your code. Once discovered and inventoried, APIs are then compared against API documentation to help you identify any security gaps.
Beyond API security, we have some of the most advanced integration capabilities available that our customers continue to enjoy. As stated by a security analyst for a financial services institution, “Checkmarx has an excellent life cycle integration. It’s easy to integrate with our main CI environments, besides that, Checkmarx has an excellent API [tool].”
Feedback over the past four years has also helped us create the industry’s most comprehensive application security platform on the market, Checkmarx One™. The platform is built from our industry-leading AppSec solutions—Static Application Security Testing (SAST), Software Composition Analysis (SCA), Supply Chain Security (SCS), API Security, Infrastructure as Code (IaC) Security, and Container Security—all delivered from the cloud. It provides rapid, correlated, and accurate scan results to speed remediation, all from a single, unified interface.
Developers and security professionals alike have been raving about the benefits of our platform. A front-end developer for an IT company remarked, “Great overall experience so far. [The] support team handles my inquiries very well, and the Checkmarx One platform is a good cloud SAST tool.” While an application security (AppSec) manager for a financial institution dubbed Checkmarx One “the future of AppSec” citing it, “solves issues that we’ve had with bringing together several scanning technologies into a single portal. This greatly simplifies the message that we send to the business as we only need to direct developers to a single place.”*
The innovation doesn’t stop here. We look forward to continuing to leverage our customers’ feedback to help organizations create increasingly secure software that improves lives, promotes economic growth, uplifts society, and inspires creative thinkers.
Interested in learning more?
Hear what our customers are saying by downloading a complimentary copy of the 2022 Gartner® Peer Insights™ as a Customers’ Choice for Application Security Testing Report.
*Reviews have been edited for formatting and readability.
Gartner, Gartner Peer Insights ‘Voice of the Customer’: Application Security Testing, Peer Contributors, 30 September 2022.
Gartner® and Peer Insights™ are trademarks of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner® Peer InsightsTM content consists of the opinions of individual end users based on their own experiences, and should not be construed as statements of fact, nor do they represent the views of Gartner or its affiliates. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in this content
nor makes any warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this content, about its accuracy or completeness, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.