
Assumption #1: Browsers have a history stack (often referred to as a “history object”) for each opened tab. This stack contains all the visited pages in the particular tab. Actually, you probably know this history stack pretty well, as it’s exactly the same one as the one in your browser.
Fig. 1 – The history stack and a list of history entries in Google Chrome browser
Assumption #2: If a website loads an <iframe> within it, every page that is visited by the user inside the <iframe> will be served to the user as it was pushed to the stack of the parent window (W3 calls it a “fact” in “typical browsers”, however, I still prefer to call it an assumption).
Assumption #3: History stack doesn’t contain the same page entry twice (or more) in a row.
Assumption #4: Browsers enforce the SOP (Same-Origin-Policy), which means that sites with different origins (i.e. scheme, domain, or port) should never be able to access each other’s data (e.g. localStorage items, cookies and …drum roll… the history stack length).
Fig. 2 – Demo of XSHM Exploitation
The Evil Diff
Creating an IFrame that points to the login page in the vulnerable website (this page should be pushed to the history stack).
Read the current length of the history stack (using length) and save it.
Change the IFrame src attribute to a URL of a protected page and read the length again.
From assumption #2:

If the length is the same in both cases, the user was redirected from the protected page to the login page (i.e. not authenticated), thus no new entries were pushed to the stack.
However, if the length was increased, that means that the user accessed the protected page (i.e. is authenticated).

If the length is the same in both cases, the user was redirected from the protected page to the login page (i.e. not authenticated), thus no new entries were pushed to the stack.
However, if the length was increased, that means that the user accessed the protected page (i.e. is authenticated).
Finding Up-to-Date Diff
Let’s break it down.
Do you see it? We found a brand new diff.
Mitigation
What About the Random-Token Sanitizer?
Final Words


VERSION	91.0.4472.101	89.0	91.0.864.37	11.0.0.4