
Today CRN®, a brand of The Channel Company, announced its highly respected annual Women of the Channel list and I always look forward to seeing all of the amazing leaders who are featured each year.
By bringing innovative concepts, strategic business planning and comprehensive channel initiatives to life, these extraordinary women support partners and customers with exceptional leadership. CRN celebrates these women, who are so deserving of recognition, for their constant dedication to channel excellence.
This year the list has a different flavor by listing – for the first time – a Checkmarx woman among this unique list. What an achievement! I can barely express how proud I am to share this honor with so many colleagues, friends, and partners. Thank you, CRN, and a huge thank you to our partners for voting to recognize the efforts of women at Checkmarx.
These women represent the best of the best when it comes to thought leadership in the channel, and no one is more committed to partners’ success. I am so overjoyed to be part of this.
At Checkmarx, our goal is to empower our partners, so that they can, in turn, help their customers build and run secure applications. This creates a true partnership that fosters growth together. Being named to this list of influential women by CRN inspires me to continue to help our partners and empower Checkmarx channel ecosystem.
To help channel partners and more IT channel’s women, I share thoughts on what partners need to focus on and be aware of to find success in the year ahead.
What's the key to success for channel partners in 2022?
Leverage the power of partner relationship to generate new business opportunities, increase revenue growth, and expand our channel ecosystem.
Invest to make the partner experience even more rewarding.
Develop customer demand programs for partners with campaign-in-a-box.
Make the MDF program impossible to ignore.
Prioritize customer and partner value.
The key to success for Checkmarx in 2022 is taking our support for our channel partners and our customers to the next level. We ensure that our strategy, programs, processes, and systems are evolving in ways that will allow customer marketing to orchestrate, ignite, and co-innovate customer value across the partner ecosystem.
We have always been committed to technology and channel partners from the early days of our company’s history, but Checkmarx has made investments in channel partner leadership and programs to ensure that we can meet our partners at the level they require, equipped with everything that they need. This is especially important to our success as we continue to build our presence in new regions around the world.
Again, and again, I’m honored to be recognized as a CRN 2022 Woman of the Channel. Being named to this list of influential women by CRN inspires me to continue to enable our partners, empower worldwide women, and support Checkmarx channel ecosystem.
Did you know?
In less than one year, Checkmarx’s Channel team has launched the Checkmarx Global Partner Program, Checkmarx MDF Program, Checkmarx Partner Hub, a series of Campaign-in-a-Box, and much more. In addition, the Checkmarx channel ecosystem has seen VARs, MSPs, ISVs, and Tech Alliances increase their value to their customers by providing them with knowledge, resources, tools, and further competencies in the Application Security industry. If you want to grow your application security business, your technical expertise, and your bottom line with our strategic partner program, become a Checkmarx Partner.
“We are proud to once again recognize the remarkable leaders on this year’s Women of the Channel list. Their influence, confidence, and diligence continue to accelerate channel success significantly,” said Blaine Raddon, CEO of The Channel Company. “Their accomplishments will inspire others, and we look forward to witnessing their future contributions to the channel.”

CRN’s 2022 Women of the Channel list will be featured in the June issue of CRN Magazine and online at www.CRN.com/WOTC. Congratulations to all of the winners!
We are always looking for exceptional people with unique passion and perspectives to join the Checkmarx family, and we’re hiring across the board.
About The Channel Company
The Channel Company enables breakthrough IT channel performance with our dominant media, engaging events, expert consulting and education, and innovative marketing services and platforms. As the channel catalyst, we connect and empower technology suppliers, solution providers, and end-users. Backed by more than 30 years of unequaled channel experience, we draw from our deep knowledge to envision innovative new solutions for ever-evolving challenges in the technology marketplace. www.thechannelcompany.com
Follow The Channel Company: Twitter, LinkedIn, and Facebook.
© 2022. CRN is a registered trademark of The Channel Company, LLC.  All rights reserved.
