

The wait is finally over and we are pleased to announce that the swampUP agenda is live! Join us September 13 for our one day, three-track, JFrog user conference focused on DevOps, DevSecOps, customer use cases and much more.
September 13 | San Jose, CA
VIEW THE AGENDA > >
We start the day with a series of keynotes from our technical experts at JFrog. Our co-founder & CEO, Shlomi Ben Haim kicks off the event with a look into the future of software supply chain security and management, followed by product centric talks that discuss the evolution of the SDLC and how JFrog has upped its game to be on the cutting edge to help solve the newest challenges facing developers and companies today.
We cap the morning off with a very special keynote by the ‘security guru’ himself, Bruce Schneier. What an amazing way to gain insight into what AI and all the advancements in hacking vs security mean for the average consumer of technology.
After we take a quick coffee break so you can network with your fellow attendees and Frogs in our swamp (aka expo hall) we start back with sessions from your fellow JFrog community members. Highlights include:
Customer Use Case Stories by Fidelity, eBay, SAS
DevSecOps sessions about SBOMs, CVEs, threat detection
DevOps in practice including a talk by co-founder of DevOps, John Willis
If you are looking for more hands-on training you should attend our JFrog Academy Training Day on September 12. We have three options: full day, and two half day sessions. Get the personal attention you need to take your JFrog skills to the next level.
For more information on swampUP or JFrog Academy Training Day please visit our websites.
What will you learn at swampUP 2023?
How the software supply chain is evolving – Are you ready for the next giant leap forward? Increase speed, consolidate tools and secure your pipeline while retaining focus, saving costs and increasing efficiency in 2023
How binaries are the key to pipeline control – See how the next-gen, release-first approach to binary management can deliver a fully-automated pipeline
How to curate and secure open source – Key product announcements that will help shape the next generation of how we all trust software packages
How to wrangle security – DevSecOps can’t be efficient with a tool sprawl. Get it all under control with holistic approaches from the JFrog Security team
Innovative peer methodologies – Real world best practices, not awkward product pitches