
Enterprise software development: Can you track it all?
Enterprise software development requires a big-picture view of your organization's development status. As software development teams work on multiple applications and microservices, it can be tough to keep a handle on where to spend IT dollars to ensure everything is up-to-date and secure with industry standards.
Compounding this problem is the fact that many organizations lack visibility into their overall development status. With over 1.18 billion avoidable vulnerable dependencies being consumed each month, keeping track of what's in your ecosystem is not always easy. This lack of visibility can lead to reactive decision-making, which in turn can create tech debt including out of date dependency management.
How to prioritize and make better software development decisions
The answer lies in what we at Sonatype have labeled, Data Insights, a complementary experimental feature within Sonatype Lifecycle enabling our customers to visualize development across your organization and prioritize decision making. While there are four types of Data Insights within the feature (we encourage you to check out each one) we want to exemplify what we mean by digging into one of the insights - the SBOM Scorecard.

The SBOM Scorecard visually represents the quality of component upgrade decisions made by Java development teams across all your applications. Its goal is to:

Prompt discussions about component upgrade decisions in your organization
Provide a benchmark for evaluating your performance against your software building industry peers
With the SBOM Scorecard, organizations can get a big-picture view of their performance in relation to their peers and can use that insight to make more intelligent decisions about where to invest their development dollars. Developers can also use the SBOM Scorecard to get direction and prioritize development tasks more effectively.
The SBOM Scorecard goes beyond visibility and prioritization
Organizations can mitigate tech debt and dependency management issues by using the SBOM Scorecard to improve component upgrade decisions, developing software without vulnerabilities. This helps avoid rework in the future, and ensures that your organization is operating at the highest level of performance.
If you're an AppSec leader, DevOps leader, or CISO looking to improve your software development performance, then the SBOM Scorecard is an essential tool for you. By getting visibility into your software development and prioritizing your tasks effectively, you can build software that meets industry standards and avoid reactive decision-making. Start using the SBOM Scorecard today and elevate your Software standards.
Prompt discussions about component upgrade decisions in your organization
Provide a benchmark for evaluating your performance against your software building industry peers