
Next week, on June 12, we’re hosting our second annual Nexus User Conference, and we can’t wait to share everything we have planned with all of you. Just like last year, the event is completely free, live and online. As a company that believes in the power of open source, we’ve effectively open-sourced the conference to bring our entire community together, rather than divide it by those without budget or a convenient geolocation.
We talk about this as the “un-conference,” meaning a free, open, and social environment for people to exchange ideas, have conversations and feel comfortable asking questions. With so many amazing stories from Sonatype customers, we wanted to ensure everyone in our community has the same access to learn and share from one another, and we believe the un-conference is the way to do that.
This year’s lineup is second to none. We have a number of familiar faces back from the Sonatype team to share what the future of The Nexus Platform is going to look like, as well as new tips and tricks to make using Nexus even easier. We’ve also invited incredible speakers from TD Bank, Discover, American Express, BJ's Wholesale Club, Tomitribe, and more to share their DevOps and DevSecOps transformation stories.
I’m particularly excited to hear keynote speaker Allan Friedman from the US Dept. of Commerce, NTIA, talk about the importance of the Software Bill of Materials ( SBOM) - something we’re extremely passionate here at Sonatype.
If I haven’t convinced you yet, take a look back at some of the sessions we had last year, to give you an idea of exactly what the un-conference is like and why you won’t want to miss it.

A Simply Brilliant Way to Improve the Security Pipeline, Xin Xu, Kaiser Permanente
How-to Roll Out Nexus in a Large Organization, Chris Bolton and Jasmine James, Delta
To Succeed, DevSecOps Must Actually Include DevOps, Larry Maccherone, Comcast
Nexus Helps Cure Cancer, Sarah Elkins, GDIT
Fannie Mae: Scaling the DevOps Enterprise. Fannie Mae
Why You Need DevSecOps and Artifact Repositories, Helen Beal, Ranger4
Operating Without an OSS License? That Could Be Dangerous!, Jerry Gergel and Melanie Latin, Sonatype
Full Lifecycle Container Security, John Morello, Twistlock
You can register for the Nexus User Conference as well as see the full list of speakers and sessions here.
Looking forward to seeing you all there!