
Editor's Note: This recipe was contributed by Oleg Smetanin, a Sonatype Community member. Please continue the discussion in the comments section below.
With Sonatype Nexus Repository, we can easily get a private Docker registry for Kubernetes cluster, npm and Maven registry for applications. This recipe shows how to deploy a Docker private registry on its own domain name. At the end, Sonatype Nexus Repository will be available at nexus.YOURDOMAIN.com and Docker registry at docker.YOURDOMAIN.com.
We assume that our Kubernetes cluster has Ingress-controller (using nginx-ingress for example) with certification authority support (Let's Encrypt client service using kube-lego for example).
Note: The recipe on how to install such cluster from scratch with nginx-based Ingress, kube-lego-based Let's Encrypt client and Persistent Volume provider using Heketi/GlusterFS can be found here.
In real cluster we will use some Persistent Volume provider like Heketi/GluserFS for persistence. In simplest case we can create toy PersistentVolume mounted to the host node’s filesystem directory with command:
Сheсking if creation is successful:
Now we are ready to deploy Sonatype Nexus Repository. The config below creates namespace, deployment, service and ingress for Sonatype Nexus Repository. Do not forget to change YOURDOMAIN.com to your domain name.
After the deployment is done and the Sonatype Nexus Repository interface is available at nexus.YOURDOMAIN.com, we should create a Docker repository. Login to Sonatype Nexus Repository with admin/admin123, go to "Server administration and configuration," "Repositories," "Create repository," "Docker (hosted)" and publish docker hosted http service on 5000 port.
Your private Docker registry is ready to work at docker.YOURDOMAIN.com.
Let's test it. Push hello-world container to registry (on your computer).
Now test how Kubernetes pull images from our private docker registry. Create namespace for hello-world application.
Create secret in hello-world namespace.
Deploy hello-world application and export it with NodePort. Do not forget to change YOURDOMAIN.com.
Look at pod status.
Test it.
That's all. Do not forget to change default Sonatype Nexus Repository password and disable anonymous access.
Happy private Dockerizing.
This article originally appeared on Medium.