
Nexus IQ Server (IQ) for Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) provides development teams with direct access to Sonatype's comprehensive component intelligence. We currently provide IDE integration with IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, and Visual Studio.
Figure 1: Nexus IQ integration for Visual Studio.
But will integrating IQ Server into your IDE make you better at your job? We’ll go over the top five benefits of how installing our plugins helps you get things done.
Works Where You Work
IDEs are powerful because they show code hints and code style guidelines, allowing you to fix code and triage if issues are identified. Similarly, a Nexus IQ IDE integration lets developers make informed decisions when selecting your projects' components — all in the integrated development environment that you’re used to.
Better Info Means Better Applications
You’ll see security, license, and other quality information for components before development even begins, and also have access to that data for direct and transitive dependencies used within development projects. This reduces tedious, manual research requirements.
You Have the Power
Integrating Nexus IQ Server with an IDE helps push decision making power into your hands, ensuring that components selected for use in an application match company expectations. It provides developers with the ability to make better choices early, saving time further down the lifecycle.
Ease of Remediation
You can easily identify violations, then identify a path to remediate and choose better components. If a different version is available without vulnerabilities, it’s shown as a Recommended Version in your IDE. Selecting the recommended version activates the Migrate button, which you can use to start project refactoring.
Focus on Security
We get it, it’s not your day job. But focusing on security is increasingly important in modern software development. Gone are the days of working in your development silo. Using an IQ integration in your IDE is an easy way of taking on the security focus and building applications that adhere to your company policy and provide the safest experience for your end-users.
Get Started
To get started, download, install, and configure a plugin for the IDE of your choice. Then scan your applications to see detailed security, license, and quality information on both direct and transitive components:
Figure 2: Example IQ & IDE integration workflow.
Visual Studio
Install IQ for Visual Studio using the Extensions manager or via the Microsoft Visual Studio Marketplace.
For help with configuration, see our detailed IQ for Visual Studio help docs.
IDEA
Download the IQ for IDEA plugin directly from Sonatype.
For help with configuration, see our detailed IQ for IDEA help docs.
Eclipse
Download the IQ for Eclipse plugin directly from Sonatype.
For help with configuration, see our detailed IQ for Eclipse help docs.
Want to Learn More?
Sonatype has many more plugins and integrations that will help you bring security into your development process. To learn more, check out our learning guide on IQ for Developers.
Also, be sure to check out my.sonatype.com for all things Sonatype, and connect with us over at the Sonatype Community.