
Start prepping your coffee, tea, or other caffeine of choice – the world's largest DevOps conference returns on November 10, 2022. All Day DevOps (ADDO) features 180 speakers covering six tracks that range from modern infrastructure to the state of the software supply chain. 

Planning on marathoning as much as possible? We admire your dedication. But for everyone who requires at least a little bit of sleep, we've compiled a list of 14 different sessions that you won’t want to miss.

Of course, these selections are only the tip of the ADDO iceberg. Reserve your free spot now to make sure you don't miss these or any of the other numerous talks happening on November 10, 2022.
ADDO keynote speakers
Dr. StrangeDevOps – How I Learned to Love Multi Speed in Complex Enterprises
Presented by: Mirco Hering, Managing Director, Accenture
Journey to Auto-DevSecOps at Nasdaq
Presented by: Benjamin Wolf, CTO, Nasdaq

The Rise of the Supply Chain Attack
Presented by: Sean Wright, Principal Application Security Engineer, Featurespace
Threat Landscapes: An Upstream and Downstream Moving Target
Presented by: Brian Fox, CTO, Sonatype
Sessions from the software supply chain track
Assessing the Risk of Open-source Components Using OpenSSF's Scorecard
Presented by: Spencer Schrock, Software Engineer, Google & Laurent Simon, Security Engineer, Google

Depends on Dependencies: Software Supply Chain Security
Presented by: Angelica Phaneuf, CISO, Army Software Factory

Have a Plan Before You Need a Plan: Dealing With Software Supply Chain Issues the Right Way
Presented by: Ilkka Turunen, Field CTO, Sonatype
State of the Software Supply Chain
Presented by Stephen Magill, VP Product Innovation, Sonatype
Sessions from the DevSecOps track
Mind the gap... Your AppSec Blindspot
Presented by: Edwin Kwan, Head of Application Security and Advisory, US PTO
Security Automation and the Developer Experience
Presented by: Rosalind Radcliffe, CIO DevSecOps CTO, IBM & Thomas Lawless, Executive IT Specialist, IBM
Sessions from the SRE track
The Evolution of GameDays
Presented by: Ana Margarita Medina, Staff Developer Advocate, Lightstep
Sessions from the CI/CD track
Expanding DevOps to Embedded Systems: Lessons Learned!
Presented by: Hasan Yasar, Technical Director of the Continuous Deployment of Capability, SEI CMU
Sessions from the cultural transformation track
USPTO Virtual DOJO Journey
Presented by: Melissa Rummel, Transformation Delivery Division Lead, US PTO
Sessions from the modern infrastructure track
Learn How to (Not) Use Secrets With OWASP WrongSecrets!
Presented by: Jeroen Willemsen, Project Lead, OWASP
Got your can't-miss sessions noted? Fantastic, we'll see you there.