With 2025 in full swing, it's clear this year will be transformational as the open source landscape continues to evolve faster than ever. Helping developers navigate this environment is why Sonatype exists, and we view the relationships we have with our customers as the cornerstone of innovation. This is why we're taking the opportunity of Valentine's Day to share some customer stories that have us smitten.
These customers are harnessing the full potential of the Sonatype platform to deliver secure applications across a wide range of industries, and we're so glad they continue to choose Sonatype.
US Pharmaceutical Leader: Sonatype helps this customer monitor 600 application scans every single day, helping to protect the data of more than 100 million users across millions of weekly digital interactions. Using Sonatype, they identified hundreds of previously unknown vulnerabilities across thousands of applications - instantly.
Global Biopharmaceutical Company: Known for its patient-centric approach and innovation, this customer needed to scale its DevSecOps environment in order to identify risks as early in the development process as possible.
Trilliant: Sonatype Lifecycle is critical to Trilliant's ability to deliver its smart grid communications platform. Security and performance are integral to the experience they deliver to their customers.
USPTO: The mission of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) is to drive US innovation, and Sonatype helps its development teams go from concept to deployment in less than 24 hours. This makes them incredibly productive.
Fortune 200 Financial Organization: Sonatype Repository Firewall helped a Fortune 200 financial institution avoid a $5 million malware threat within minutes.
ABN AMRO: With Sonatype Lifecycle, ABN AMRO programmers can make the right decisions to create more secure software.
Fintech Giant: Sonatype helped automate scanning, remediation, and governance, reducing thousands of hours of manual reviews to just minutes.
Leading Software Provider: With Sonatype, this leading enterprise CRM provider scans 7 million applications every month and has complete confidence that their data is flawless.
Progress: Sonatype provided the tools and support Progress Software needed to streamline due diligence, reduce risk, and develop with confidence.
Endress + Hauser: With Sonatype, our customer was able to eliminate virtually all of the challenges of open source consumption and management.
BNP Paribas: Implementing Sonatype Nexus Repository helped spark a revolution at BNP Paribas Personal Finance.
U.S. Department of Energy: Using Sonatype Lifecycle, the DOE was able to unobtrusively help its development teams ship higher quality, more secure code.
Discovery Health: Sonatype Lifecycle provides visibility into open source components with known vulnerabilities everywhere across the company's global application stack.
BNY Mellon | Pershing: With Sonatype, the financial services company can produce functionality and new applications really fast, and that has increased exponentially.
We're thankful for the organizations that allow us to help tell their stories, and these successes inspire us to continue building innovative solutions that help drive your growth, secure your software, and shape the future of development.
If you're interested in learning more about how Sonatype can help you, schedule a demo with one of our experts today.