
As a Sonatype customer, your success has always been our relentless focus. In this moment, with the global spread of COVID-19, we add the health and well-being of you and your family to this concern. I am emailing to share a few thoughts and the important steps we have already taken to ensure our business continuity for you, while promoting the well-being of our employees.
Continuously supporting you
We recognize how you and your colleagues, customers, and constituents are deeply reliant upon a continuous software development lifecycle, reliably generating secure software innovations for internal and external use. This is especially true in this moment.
Since our inception, Sonatype has been a "remote-first" organization, where the majority of our employees have been working from their home offices for years. In particular, this is the case for our Customer Success and Customer Support apparatus, where for years remote employees from across the globe work around the clock via secure connections to all of the tools that drive the business.
Furthermore, given the importance for Sonatype to deliver continuous product improvements and innovations to you, our entire Product Development and Technical Operations are distributed in home offices across the globe, with skill-sets honed over years to work as collaboratively and effectively as possible as a remote team. This sets Sonatype up to ensure we do not miss a beat in the event of shut-downs of certain locales.
For customers taking advantage of our cloud services including the Central Repository, Sonatype Lifecycle, Sonatype Repository Firewall, Sonatype Auditor, and our Developer Solutions, our cloud infrastructure is designed to extensively scale with usage, leveraging the resiliency of AWS to ensure operational continuity. Given Sonatype's strong financial position and backing by Vista Equity Partners, we are well-positioned to continue to invest in these and forthcoming innovations.
In addition to our customer support, available to help Monday through Friday, with available round the clock support, we have been investing in a world-class self-service customer platform: my.sonatype.com. Here, you have access to everything from comprehensive documentation and technical guides, to an in depth knowledge-base, extensive educational courses, and user community.
Supporting you while keeping Sonatype employees safe
The Sonatype leadership team and business continuity group have engaged a pandemic response plan, providing specific guidelines for our teams across the globe. Given the remote-first nature of our company, only a small number of employees typically work in an office. Until further notice, we are encouraging these employees to work from home and have empowered them with the appropriate technologies and training to do so with minimal disruption.
We have also indefinitely suspended all non-essential travel, including travel for workshops, services, and training delivery. We have already instituted plans for remote delivery of these engagements wherever possible. In addition, we have suspended corporate events, across the globe, in favor of digital options. We will be sure to communicate with you at Sonatype.com, the customer portal, and social media channels, as the situation develops.
If you have any questions about our business continuity plans, do not hesitate to contact us at success@sonatype.com.