

The excitement is building. JFrog is pleased to announce the awesome agenda we have assembled for swampUP 2024 at the Omni Barton Creek Resort & Spa in Austin. Join us Sep 9-11 for one of the premier DevOps conferences of the year, focusing on the latest trends in software development platforms, supply chain security, OSS repositories, AI/ML applications and so much more.
September 9-11 | Austin, TX
CHECK OUT THE AGENDA > >
We kickoff with a series of keynotes from JFrog executives, featuring co-founder & CEO, Shlomi Ben Haim presenting his vision of how developers will increasingly be responsible for “EveryOps” – which includes just about everything from coding, building and ensuring safe delivery to ongoing operations of the applications they have created.
Get up to speed on the latest with our partners at GitHub, as Brian Randall discusses the game-changing advances in DevOps and DevSecOps as a result of the recent JFrog and GitHub partnership announcement.
You can’t miss the next session with Patrick Dubois, author of the “DevOps Handbook”, who will share his take on the fast-growing world of genAI applications and whether they actually fit into the classic SDLC model, what the business implications of these advancements are, and their significance in the ever-evolving software development landscape.
The afternoon sessions cover the hottest topics facing DevOps teams today including:

Securing Deep Learning in 2024
Using AI to write better quality software
Demystifying Platform Engineering and Internal Developer Platforms
Improving DevOps with sociotechnical engineering
If you are looking to hone your skills, we offer a number of training options that will take place on September 9th, including both half and full day sessions. Get the personal attention you need to take your JFrog expertise to the next level. See the swampUP Training Day agenda for more information.
Qualify for our Early Bird Discount by registering before June 30th and receive a 50% discount.
50% Early Bird Discount - Register Now! > >
How will you benefit from swampUP 2024?
You don’t want to miss this year’s conference that not only covers the burning issues facing our industry, but also provides a golden opportunity for development, operations and security professionals to:

Sharpen your skills and gain important insights into the latest trends for protecting your software supply chain against attacks
Increase your awareness of emerging industry and government regulations and best practices for artifact documentation and compliance
Explore new opportunities for implementing better end-to-end security based on the latest advances in security technologies and automation
See hands-on demonstrations of how the new partnership between GitHub and JFrog is introducing innovative processes for enjoying all the benefits of OSS without compromising on security
Network with industry experts and gain access to proprietary conference materials, private training sessions and security workshops
Room is limited so make sure to register and reserve your place today.