

By now you’ve probably gotten the message – multi-cloud DevOps (or a hybrid on-prem/cloud approach) is the future of development and deployment architectures. The benefits of this approach are pretty clear: future proofing your business, optimizing for performance and availability, avoiding vendor lock-in, leveraging the best tools/elements of each cloud provider, and more.
If you’re sold on the idea of multi-cloud, but find yourself asking, “How do I actually go about doing multi-cloud?” – you’re not alone. That’s why we’ve put together a free coffee break series on this topic. In these three 15-20 minute sessions we’re cutting through the fat and getting to the meat of how you actually get started with multi-cloud.
Here’s what we’ll cover:
Session 1: Choosing the Right Multi-Cloud Topology
As part of your multicloud evolution, you will need to give due consideration to how your various cloud instances will be interconnected and which binaries are accessible from where. Based on your business requirements, you might use JFrog federated repositories, or you may need to employ push or pull replication in a multi-site DevOps topology. What types of scheduling strategies for replication do your business requirements dictate –  on-demand, on-schedule or event based replication?
In this coffee break we’ll go over your options and the best fit option for various use cases.

Session 2: The JFrog Platform Tools for Multi-Cloud/Hybrid Architectures
For an organization with development teams across the world, it’s critical to make sure that network issues like latency, bandwidth limitations, or connection outages don’t hurt productivity. When sharing artifacts across multiple sites, they need to be available locally at each site, either within the local network (on-premises) or in the same region (cloud).
In this coffee break session, we cover how JFrog Artifactory’s unique set of multi-cloud capabilities ensure locality in any network topology.

Session 3: Multi-Cloud/Hybrid  Distribution – Why and How?
Rapid development and deployment, infrastructure and edge explosion, and increased adoption of cloud-native and embedded apps slow down distribution due to network utilization and security. The reach of your enterprises must span core data centers and cloud/multi-cloud environments, as well as the exponentially growing numbers of local edges and embedded devices that are part of IoT efforts.
In this coffee break, we will describe how JFrog helps you overcome the bottleneck in modern application delivery with trusted distribution. Find out how JFrog gets your software to runtime environments and devices, ecosystem download centers, remote development sites, or wherever it needs to be – asap!

Dive Deeper at SwampUp
If you’re looking for even more DevOps learning with your favorite JFrog tools, join the community of DevOps and DevSecOps leaders at swampUP, JFrog’s developer-first conference, May 25 and 26 in sunny San Diego! Learn practical tips and see how some of the top practitioners in the industry are solving their day-to-day software supply chain challenges during swampUP’s two days of information-filled sessions and hands-on training.
Plus, build a plugin at our Hackergarten, relax at the DevOps Speakeasy, win points and JFrog swag, and  network with thought leaders, technical experts, and leading practitioners like you at the Gala Event!
Need more? Save 30% off full-priced admission until April 22nd.