

In the fast-paced, ever-evolving world of software development, the ability to seamlessly migrate and manage workloads on the cloud is a game changer. At JFrog, we’re committed to empowering organizations to achieve their DevOps, DevSecOps, and MLOps goals with speed, security, and efficiency. Migrating these workloads to the cloud offers numerous advantages, including increased scalability, cost efficiency, and improved agility.
JFrog is an Amazon Web Services (AWS) Partner, an AWS Marketplace Seller, and participates in the AWS ISV Workload Migration Program (WMP). JFrog customers with eligible workloads will be able to benefit from proven migration processes to mitigate risk, faster time-to-value through rapid cloud migrations, and post-migration optimized cloud security and operations.
Why migrate DevOps to the cloud?
When considering a move from on-premises to cloud deployments of SaaS solutions like JFrog, customers typically consider a number of key differences.
Scalability: Cloud deployments allow teams to scale their resources up or down on demand, providing the flexibility to accommodate fluctuating workloads and ensuring optimal resource utilization. On-prem infrastructure typically requires significant upfront investments to handle peak workloads, and resources can also be underutilized during periods of lower demand, leading to wasted capacity.
Total cost of ownership (TCO): The one-time migration cost can be worth it when compared to ongoing costs of managing and maintaining an on-prem solution. Maintaining and managing on-prem infrastructure involves substantial costs, including hardware, maintenance, power consumption, cooling, and physical space requirements.
Developer productivity: The cloud unlocks seamless collaboration and remote access to development and production environments. It allows teams to work together on shared resources, access code repos, and deploy applications from anywhere.
Security and compliance: By running JFrog on the cloud, organizations can leverage the security, encryption, and compliance expertise and infrastructure of cloud providers. Maintaining high security with on-prem deployments requires continuous hardware and software updates and patching, as well as a high degree of expertise.
There are many other reasons – such as high availability and disaster recovery, time-to-deploy, modern CI/CD – that JFrog customers consider when thinking about migration. Our goal is to make the experience as seamless as possible, using lessons learned from helping thousands of customers successfully migrate to the cloud.
The value of migrating to JFrog on AWS
JFrog has built a strong collaboration with AWS, supporting hundreds of customer launches on AWS. Over the years, JFrog earned key AWS Partner Competencies, Service-Ready Validations such as AWS PrivateLink, and joint co-builds including Amazon SageMaker – demonstrating our technical expertise and proven success in helping customers deploy, manage, and scale their applications on AWS.
The JFrog Software Supply Chain Platform is designed to integrate with AWS services, enabling organizations to optimize their development pipelines with a massively scalable platform solution. Customers benefit from full traceability to any type of release and deployment environment including ML models.
Together, JFrog running on AWS can help lower IT costs, improve business agility, increase developer productivity, and gain operational resiliency.
The AWS ISV Workload Migration Program with JFrog
To streamline your cloud migration, it is important to have the proper support and guidance when you need it. Work with JFrog and follow a proven migration path to accelerate your journey to the cloud and achieve benefits faster. JFrog is an AWS ISV Workload Migration Program (WMP) Partner that has demonstrated capability in helping customers migrate their DevOps and DevSecOps workloads to the cloud. JFrog can work in tandem with your in-house IT teams to ensure a smooth, efficient cloud transition.
The AWS WMP helps customers migrate eligible ISV workloads to AWS, accelerating their cloud journey to achieve business goals. The WMP activates a prescriptive, repeatable migration motion, ultimately reducing risk and costs.
Benefits include:

Proven migration process to mitigate risk: By participating in this program, JFrog is positioned to leverage AWS’s capabilities, making the migration process easier for our global customers.
Faster time-to-value through rapid cloud adoption: Customers can take advantage of the cloud’s benefits, such as enhanced scalability, flexibility, and performance, leading to improved operational efficiency and faster realization of business goals.
Post-migration optimized cloud security and operations: By integrating JFrog’s robust security features with the capabilities of AWS, customers can confidently embark on their digital transformation journey, ensuring security and compliance without compromise.
Learn more about the AWS ISV Workload Migration Program >
Start your DevOps migration journey
JFrog has helped thousands of customers successfully and seamlessly migrate their DevOps to the cloud. Monster, a global leader in connecting people and jobs for 30 years, underwent a significant digital transformation of its core technology to be cloud-native, built around containerized microservices architectures and Kubernetes. Working with JFrog and AWS, Monster can now release updates “virtually on request” instead of a 15-month cycle.
“It’s a massive enabler of efficiency from an architectural perspective. Having the ability to put this into a centralized, well-governed repository where everybody can access that with certain controls and having the security and the labeling in place is essential for Monster to be as reactive, as fast as we can.” – Martin Eggenberger, Chief Architect, Monster
Ready to migrate your DevOps workloads to the cloud? On the AWS Global Infrastructure, you can take advantage of immediate business and IT benefits. Discover opportunities to lower your total cost of ownership, boost resiliency, and improve performance.
By joining the AWS ISV Workload Migration Program, JFrog is able to accelerate migrations for our customers and provide a seamless migration experience. Customers will now be able to achieve faster time-to-value as they unlock the performance, speed, agility, and economic benefits of the cloud.
Reach out to your JFrog representative or get in touch with cloud@jfrog.com to learn more about the AWS ISV Workload Migration Program, and see if your migration may qualify.