

Recently JFrog was recognized for the fourth year in a row by the Deloitte Technology Fast 500™ as one of the fastest growing companies in America. This achievement of being among the most elite companies in North America is a result of our commitment to fostering a great company culture that encourages talent and innovation.
The culture at JFrog is unique and unlike anything I’ve been part of throughout my career. Integrity, fairness, care, and team spirit are just a few of the values in our JFrog Codex – a collection of shared beliefs that guide us through this journey together. It represents the core of our values, goals and inspiration that takes us to the next level of success. Each year we hold an anonymous survey to ensure that we continue to stand by these beliefs and encourage feedback.
The JFrog Codex – Making an Impact
We stand by our Codex and foster a healthy culture of innovation in a market that is defined by rapid transformation. While we are many, through our Codex – we can successfully act and win as one. It is a great and rare privilege to build a company that is based on unbreakable values and DNA. I am proud to be a part of the journey and more than that I am proud to do it with each and every one of our frogs!
Agility – Change is an opportunity
No doubt the pandemic underscored the need to maintain our Codex – and I’m proud to say that despite the countless challenges and distance between all of us around the world over the past 18 months – we all felt connected at heart. During that time we added 300+ new employees across all regions; showed continued revenue growth and customer wins; and were recognized by industry trade and business publications for the solutions we deliver and our drive for success, including TechStrong’s DevOps Dozen, Dun100, SD Times’ 100 Award, and as one of the Bay Area’s Best Places to Work by the San Francisco Business Times and Silicon Valley Journal.
As our Co-Founder and CEO, Shlomi Ben Haim said: “The JFrog team has always been passionate about helping developers transform their organizations through continuous innovation.”
It’s this culture of innovation – underpinned by compassion and commitment – that I believe makes JFrog not only successful, but a wonderful place to work. I’m honored to be part of this group of talented people – each with the heart of a frog and the spirit of a lion.
Want to join us on this journey? – we’re always looking for more great Frogs to join our Swamp! Visit our careers page, follow us on Twitter, Facebook, or LinkedIn.