

As businesses strive to keep up with the speed of digital transformation, they’re turning to DevOps practices to help them automate the delivery of code changes. In a world where delivering secure quality software updates fast-drives business value, enter the JFrog Cloud DevOps Platform.
The JFrog Platform unifies, accelerates, and secures your software delivery, from development to distribution. It’s designed to be flexible and open, with a unified security model that provides visibility and control over your software releases. The platform is also scalable and highly available, so you can launch software faster on a global scale without sacrificing security.
In this blog post, we’ll take a closer look at the JFrog Cloud DevOps Platform and how it can help you overcome some of the challenges of DevOps delivery. We’ll also explore some of the benefits of using the platform, including cost and value optimization.
JFrog Platform in the Cloud: The Ultimate DevOps Delivery Solution
A recent study by Zapier shows that 88% of technology companies believe that a recession is likely in the next year, and 75% say they feel they’re prepared. While revenue data still projects growth year over year, a quarter of tech companies are either not well prepared (21%) or unsure of how prepared they’re (4%) when a recession occurs.
From high interest rates to recession threats, businesses must be intentional about where to find solutions to navigate challenging near-term economic conditions. For instance, in a recent episode of Nasdaq’s World Reimagined podcast, “a leadership podcast for a changing world,” host Gautam Mukunda notes that “Tech staples could separate from the pack: Tech is not a monolith.” Mukunda adds that cybersecurity has become a necessity, and robots are important in fighting supply chain challenges, labor shortages, and inflation.
But how are technology companies separating themselves from the pack? Automating, retaining customers, and cutting operating expenses are the primary actions technology companies are taking or plan to take to help them survive a recession. Despite the current market, long-term projections tend towards growth.
While it’s extremely difficult to pinpoint exactly how to maneuver through this difficult market, it’s best to innovate and come out ahead with proper planning. Businesses in every vertical are facing budget concerns and looking for cost-efficiencies. The JFrog Cloud DevOps Platform can help them do that while continuing to innovate and launch software faster on a global scale without sacrificing security with shrinking budgets.
The JFrog DevOps Platform addresses core challenges and enables improved quality of service, and operational efficiency through secure and continuous delivery. It enables customers who need a single, unified management platform for continuous software updates across on-prem, hybrid, and native public cloud environments such as Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform.
This universal, highly available enterprise DevOps platform empowers organizations to speed up software releases from code-to-edge nodes. It also efficiently distributes immutable release bundles while gaining visibility into your DevOps pipeline. Metrics can be gathered to remove bottlenecks, optimize your release processes, and, importantly, won’t break your budget. The JFrog Platform provides a single solution that addresses end-to-end binary lifecycle management, application security, pipelines automation and orchestration, software distribution, IoT device management, and updates.
Complete CI/CD Functionality with Cost Efficiency
The JFrog Platform is a more efficient software development and distribution solution because it streamlines the software lifecycle, cuts costly errors and dependencies, and reduces the time needed for feedback loops. It’s also more flexible and easier to integrate into existing processes. Here are just a few of its functionalities and aligning cost-effective solutions.
Fully Autonomous and Universal
The JFrog Platform is an efficient solution for limited budgets that need software delivery to be easily integrated into existing processes without breaking compliance requirements. By consolidating tools, migrating to the cloud, and utilizing existing spend on cloud provider allocation, JFrog’s DevOps Platform saves money while still delivering trusted software releases from developer to production quickly and efficiently. By eliminating costly errors and dependencies from disparate teams that slow down CI/CD delivery, JFrog’s platform speeds up the software development lifecycle while still maintaining a high level of quality and security.
Zero Downtime through High-Availability
High availability is a key (if not most critical) requirement for any business-critical application. The JFrog Platform provides high availability and zero downtime across the entire DevOps pipeline, from development to production. This prevents lost revenue due to disruptions in access to resources and business applications. The platform’s microservices architecture enables horizontal scaling and active/active clustering, which allows it to handle large loads without performance degradation.
Effective Disaster Recovery (DR)
By incorporating DR planning into the DevOps pipeline, you can ensure you manage it along with your application.  This essentially turns the recovery process into an application deployment process. And JFrog’s Access Federation gives you control over access to all, or any subset of your services from one location by synchronizing all security entities (users, groups, permissions and access tokens) between the federated services. Once Access Federation has been set up, you can manage all security entities in the federated services from one place which supports setting up the security entities you want to synchronize across multi-sites.
So when the time comes, your team can use their deployment knowledge and apply it to the recovery process — automation used for moving applications from dev/test into production and vice-versa can be used for failover and disaster recovery.
Efficient Cloud Migration
The JFrog DevOps Platform provides significant efficiency gains in the cloud migration process. For instance, there’s a 40% cut in continuous integration time from the average 15-minute feedback loop. The platform is built on a microservices architecture that enables horizontal scaling and active/active clustering. This allows the platform to handle large loads without performance degradation. Additionally, the platform is designed for high availability, with failover mechanisms to prevent data loss in the event of a failure. The combination of these features results in a more efficient cloud migration process, with less downtime and fewer disruptions.
Faster Mean Time to Resolution (MTTR)
When developers can quickly discover and address Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE), it saves them a large amount of time to remediate and reduces the possibility of a large fine to their business for not properly securing customer data. Consider the costly Log4j incident, where many attackers exploited a popular Java logging package as it posed a severe risk to millions of consumer products, enterprises, and web applications. This was dubbed as one of the most severe vulnerabilities as hackers have leveraged the Log4j flaw to target more than 40% of corporate networks worldwide.
Another incident, Equifax, which didn’t resolve this known vulnerability on time, resulted in the exposure of the personal information of 147 million consumers. To settle actions brought by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), and all fifty U.S. states, Equifax agreed to pay $700 million. In addition to costly settlements for not resolving known vulnerabilities, the FTC is also pursuing legal action against companies that fail to protect consumer data. But the desire for legal action against companies that don’t secure their software supply chains doesn’t stop with the FTC. A Venafi report identified that 94% of executives want legal action against software vendors who neglect data security.
JFrog Xray and the JFrog DevOps Platform intelligently identify significant supply chain security issues that attackers use to compromise developers’ processes. Because of this, organizations were able to completely address the Log4j vulnerability across their ecosystem in hours, not weeks or months — enabling them to rapidly respond to new regulatory requirements and zero-day bugs with microservice updates on demand. JFrog’s Advanced Security delivers fast and accurate results, reducing the noise of false positives – integrated into existing development software supply toolchains without adding steps to the software lifecycle.
Reduced CapEx and OpEx
Did you know that 75% of the tools deployed in an IT organization have redundant capabilities or are nearing the end-of-life roadmap by the vendor? Consolidating build and security tools with the JFrog Platform lets you increase flexibility and reduce costs. Too many DevOps, monitoring, and security tools can cost a lot, and it’s hard to predict costs because there’s not good visibility into who is using what tool.
Also, productivity lags when teams work in isolation and use conflicting tool datasets. The recent Google Dora report reiterates that the key to achieving team agility and cost-efficiency is to align DevOps teams early with best practices. The JFrog Platform makes it easier to use DevOps tools and services, deploy DevOps methodologies, and access Docker Hub and Terraform files. Using the JFrog Platform reduces the risk of data breaches and makes it easier to follow data privacy regulations.
To Conclude
Maximizing value and ROI is essential for all business infrastructure and software applications. With the JFrog Cloud DevOps Platform, teams can quickly and efficiently deliver updates while maintaining security and compliance  – during, not after applications are deployed. Additionally, the platform provides 360 visibility into the DevOps pipeline and metrics, helping teams optimize their release processes from end-to-end.
The JFrog Cloud DevOps Platform automates the process of merging and deploying code, enabling teams to save time and money while delivering quality code that meets business objectives, on-demand.
Need to see for yourself? Schedule a demo and we’ll show you how.