

Developing for Google Cloud Run in a hybrid system managed by Anthos isn’t a solo race, it’s a relay between cloud and on-prem. To win, you’ll need an advanced Docker registry that can swiftly pass your containers for Cloud Run functions from one environment to the next.
In our example hybrid architecture, you’ll see how JFrog Container Registry
can be that reliable relay partner. Powered by Artifactory, JFrog Container Registry provides resiliency and scalability proven by a decade of industry leadership in software repository management, and it’s free to use  — no license needs to be purchased or acquired — no matter which infrastructure you choose to run it on.
Anthos is Google Cloud’s management platform that enables hybrid operation, so that applications run consistently whether through GKE on Google Cloud, on-premises or a multi-cloud DevOps environment. Hybrid infrastructures empower operations to better manage resources, security, and costs by combining the benefits of each service type.
Cloud Run for Anthos is Google Cloud’s managed platform for serverless computing that uses stateless containers. It provides the abstraction benefits of serverless while automatically scaling your containers through Knative Kubernetes. Developers like serverless computing because it empowers them to focus on making awesome applications, not managing infrastructure.
Now that Google Cloud Run can be deployed in either Anthos GKE on Google Cloud or on-prem, developers can use the serverless technology they need in the hybrid cloud that operations managers increasingly demand. But how do you implement fast, continuous container delivery in these joined environments?
The JFrog Difference
JFrog Container Registry can empower both Anthos on Google Cloud and  on-prem for a complete, container delivery pipeline. A hybrid cloud system with JFrog and Kubernetes at its heart can help teams deliver container-based software fast and reliably.
That starts with how JFrog Container Registry runs wherever you need it, whether that’s as a SaaS service hosted on GCP, or running on Anthos GKE. Combining both into a hybrid system means you can keep all your sensitive data and applications operating within your data center, and use the elastic scalability of the public cloud for everything else.
The JFrog Container Registry SaaS solution on GCP offers a free tier and free licensing as well, although your use may be subject to consumption and transfer charges from the cloud services provider.
An Example Hybrid Architecture
In this example, developers build serverless functions as Docker containers on Google Cloud’s Anthos using a CI/CD tool like JFrog Pipelines, which pushes them in a private Docker registry in JFrog Container Registry. The build is then validated in Cloud Run for Anthos on Google Cloud using test data.
Once assured a serverless container is release quality, it’s promoted through a smart remote repository in JFrog Container Registry running in Anthos GKE On-Prem. From here it can be safely deployed to the Cloud Run for Anthos installed on-prem, operating with permissioned access to sensitive data secured behind a firewall.

Of course, you can reverse this architecture just as easily, developing in the Anthos GKE on-prem environment and promoting build images for release to Cloud Run for Anthos on Google Cloud. You might do this if you need to produce your Cloud Run containers behind a firewall before deploying them at scale to the world.
Crossing the Cloud Run Finish Line
As you can see, JFrog Container Registry can make the handoff of your Cloud Run containers between cloud and on-prem swift and steady.
It’s easy to get started setting up Docker registries on your Anthos hybrid system through the JFrog website. With JFrog’s help, you can snap the tape in your race to deliver Docker, and bring your Cloud Run apps into the winner’s circle.