

JFrog and PagerDuty have deepened their technology integration to further boost IT operators’ and developers’ visibility into the software development lifecycle and accelerate incident resolution. The latest integration, which involves the JFrog Pipelines DevOps pipeline automation solution, simplifies and streamlines how to identify faulty builds that impact production environments.
With Pipelines and PagerDuty’s digital operations management solution, IT operators can quickly detect incidents, determine root causes, roll back builds, and shrink resolution time. In addition, developers can promptly update quality assurance (QA) environments and notify the QA team of the deployed changes.
The result: IT operators and developers become more productive and better able to prevent outages and increase the uptime, stability, and reliability of business-critical applications and digital services.
The Pipelines-PagerDuty integration is the companies’ latest. Previously, PagerDuty’s solution was integrated with JFrog Xray, a universal software composition analysis (SCA) and security tool for identifying open source vulnerabilities and license compliance violations. With the Xray-PagerDuty integration, DevSecOps teams can receive PagerDuty notifications for security violations detected by JFrog Xray’s deep recursive scanning of artifacts, and quickly fix the issues.
Let’s dive in more deeply into the PagerDuty-Pipelines integration.
Flagging faulty builds
Software builds can be difficult to track. They need to be looked up in their respective CI/CD tools, which IT operators may not have access to. This delays IT operators’ process for tracking a faulty build and determining the root cause of an incident affecting systems they monitor.
With the new integration, JFrog Pipelines can send notifications to PagerDuty, giving IT operators visibility into the SDLC so they can quickly associate build notifications to impacted environments. This leads to faster incident resolution, preventing outages, boosting uptime, and enhancing customer experience and revenue generation.
How does it work?
JFrog Pipelines sends notifications containing build status information during the software delivery process to PagerDuty by calling PagerDuty’s Events API. The notification information can include what software is being built, what versions are being delivered, what environments are being provisioned, what builds are failing, and much more.
The information allows teams to correlate production issues with potential software issues, understand software delivery workloads, and grasp how teams are delivering their software.
Benefits
With the development and delivery of software now a key business driver, organizations must strive for optimal uptime, quality, stability and performance of their critical applications and digital services. This new JFrog-PagerDuty integration helps organizations prevent costly outages and disruptions of business-critical applications and digital services, thus optimizing your digital customer experience and financial performance. Key benefits include:

Monitor your software release pipeline in real-time. Receive up-to-date notifications within PagerDuty about the progress of your builds throughout the various stages in your CI/CD pipeline.

Reduce your mean time to resolution (MTTR) by more quickly identifying incident root causes and deploying the appropriate fixes. Receive actionable, granular information about a particular pipeline step, including its status, name, type, and other details to respond quickly to builds that are failing or taking too long to complete.

Leverage event intelligence and analytics from JFrog Pipelines’ notifications to improve your performance with each incident.
To learn more about the integration of the JFrog and PagerDuty ecosystems, we invite you to register for swampUP 2021 — JFrog’s annual user conference — and tune in to the session “AIOps and You – Faster Deployments, Safer Pipelines, Happier People” with Heath Newburn, AIOps Solution Specialist at PagerDuty, scheduled for May 27 at 10 am PST for the Americas, and for June 3 at 10 am CET for EMEA.
We also encourage you to watch the on-demand webinar “DevSecOps: Shifting Left, Releasing Faster and Doing the Right Thing Under Fire” in which JFrog Head of Developer Relations Baruch Sadogursky and PagerDuty Developer Advocate Quintessence Anx discuss the importance of building security into the SDLC and shifting it left, closer to the source. They discuss how it should be done, and what changes are required in a mindset, the culture, and the toolchain of software delivery.