

As of August 5, 2021, JFrog will require newly created free JFrog cloud subscription users to provide valid credit or debit card information in order to activate Pipelines CI/CD.
In the months since offering Pipelines CI/CD as part of a free JFrog cloud subscription, we have unfortunately experienced a rapid growth in abuse of the free compute resources from some accounts. This abuse appears to be primarily for mining cryptocurrencies using Pipelines, which is a violation of our subscriber terms of service.
These abuses, while committed by a small minority, can negatively impact performance for all JFrog cloud users, and challenge our support teams to maintain an optimal level of service for customers.
To ensure stability and a high level of service for everyone, we will require all new free JFrog cloud accounts that use Pipelines CI/CD to verify their identity at activation time with a valid credit or debit card. Those that are unable or unwilling to provide a card can reach out to JFrog sales for assistance.
We regret that this change is necessary; this trend has afflicted other providers in the industry too, and we have all had to respond to it in the same way. As the misuse demonstrates, Pipelines CI/CD is a powerful tool for DevOps, and we’re eager for all new cloud subscribers to experience it for themselves. We believe this is the fairest, and least impactful deterrent to abuse.
For further details, here are answers to the questions you’re most likely to have:
Who will be impacted by this change?
This policy only affects JFrog Pipelines users in new JFrog cloud accounts at the free subscriber level that are created on or after August 5, 2021.
No credit or debit card will be required to create a free JFrog cloud account, nor will one be required to use Artifactory or Xray as a free subscriber. When activating Pipelines CI/CD in your account, you will be required to provide credit or debit card information in the activation procedure to verify your identity.
How will this affect my existing free JFrog cloud account?
All free JFrog cloud accounts established prior to August 5, 2021 will be unaffected by this change. No credit or debit card will be required for these accounts, but those with unusually high levels of build minutes consumption through Pipelines may be flagged for possible deactivation.
I have a commercial JFrog cloud account. How will this change impact me?
This policy will not affect paid (Pro Team and up) subscribers of JFrog cloud in any way.
I’m a self-hosted (on-prem or BYOL) JFrog customer. How will this change impact me?
Self-hosted customers and free trial users will not be impacted at all by this change.
What will happen with my credit or debit card information?
Your credit or debit card is required solely to verify your identity with a one-dollar preauthorization transaction that is immediately cancelled. No charge will be made and no money will transfer.
Your card information will be stored on a secure, PCI-compliant platform, and JFrog will not share your personal information with any third parties
When will this change happen?

When	What’s Changing
August 5, 2021	A credit or debit card will be required to activate Pipelines CI/CD for all new JFrog cloud accounts at the free subscription level.

I still have questions. Whom should I contact?
While this change does not affect current customers, feel free to contact your JFrog sales representative if you have further questions. Free JFrog cloud account users may direct questions to service@jfrog.com.