

It’s November already, and while some may think it’s a perfect time to start winding down the year, here at JFrog we’re getting warmed up to bring Europe – and more specifically the U.K. – all sorts of DevSecOps excitement this winter!
It’s no secret that Europe as a whole has been a pioneer in the development of open source software, hardware and tech standards for decades. It’s the birthplace of Linus Torvalds, the godfather of open source; Raspberry Pi, the popular credit-card-sized computer used for many applications, which was developed in the UK; today’s HTTP web protocols and W3C standards, plus many regulatory and security requirements. Europe was also at the forefront of data and personal privacy laws like GDPR and other global standards for how companies and individuals manage sensitive information.
This innovative legacy provides just a few examples for why we at JFrog see Europe as an emerging leader in the adoption of DevSecOps technology, software supply chain security, and global standards for software development. Just recently, we were proud to help one of Europe’s most recognizable healthcare companies revolutionize how they securely connect patients and healthcare providers with a complete software supply chain management platform, including JFrog’s suite of security offerings.
Why did they choose JFrog? The answer lies in the holistic nature of JFrog’s software supply chain offerings – specifically the unification of binary management and security. Myriad point solutions cobbled together made scaling their hybrid infrastructure difficult, and integration points complex. They saw the JFrog Platform as an end-to-end offering that helps them drive development, compliance, and security in one solution, reducing complexity, increasing speed, improving security posture and management, and decreasing cost of ownership.
Companies such as this are not unique in EMEA, with specific interest emerging around some recent product releases that we believe are setting the standard in the market:
JFrog Curation and Catalog: With the unique ability to prevent undesired Open Source Software (OSS) and third-party software packages from ever entering the software supply chain. The catalog – with over 4 million packages – brings development and DevSecOps teams rich, structured data on OSS software packages to enable teams to prioritize and make the best decisions on OSS usage.
AI/MLOps Repositories: In an industry first, JFrog now supports Machine Learning Model management and security alongside customers’ existing software packages. Now, teams can deliver secure, AI-enabled software with their AI supply chain becoming a first-class citizen of their software supply chain management.
Static Application Security Testing: SAST tooling enables teams to not only have comprehensive security on their binaries, but also protect the bespoke code developers are composing. This delivers a code-and-binary comprehensive protection that is unique in the industry.
Enhanced Release Lifecycle Management: Release bundles can be treated as a single entity as they are promoted between different environments through the development and release pipeline, while providing evidence to aid compliance, provenance and release process management.
With these recent pain-solving advances in the JFrog Software Supply Chain Platform, JFrog is bringing increasing business emphasis to the European market across several verticals. We’re proud to continue to expand our existing physical operations as well. With offices, development teams, sales teams, solutions engineers and support staff already in place across France, Spain and Israel, JFrog is proud to expand its physical presence into the United Kingdom. Our customers in the UK will now have more dedicated support and alignment with the rest of Europe, as standards, methodologies, teams and partners advance in this key global market.
To that end, we’re also hosting JFrog’s DevSecOps Day EMEA in London on Wednesday, November 15. This one day event will bring together technology announcements, emerging methodologies, hands-on training and key use cases in DevSecOps, as well as feature industry best practices from JFrog customers as they illuminate real-world challenges and solutions. DevSecOps Day EMEA is free to attend, but registration is required, so plan on bringing your entire team!
We also see EMEA DevOps and DevSecOps momentum via strategic partnerships. Our channel partners – who recently joined us from around the globe at our first annual Partner Day – are growing rapidly, including many JFrog partners in EMEA that can accelerate procurement and adoption of JFrog solutions.
In short, JFrog has always balanced rapid innovation with extensive automation and protection, creating a natural fit for the advanced European market.
As we continue to drive DevSecOps momentum for companies across the region, we invite you to be an active participant in this trend. You can contact us directly for a completely obligation-free consult, test drive or proof of concept as you transform your DevSecOps processes on-prem, hybrid, in the cloud or across clouds.
While the weather may be turning more gray this time of year, the future looks bright for our customers and partners, and we’re pleased to work with you on hitting the ground running in 2024!