

According to Gartner, almost two-thirds of U.S. businesses were directly impacted by a software supply chain attack. So it’s not a question of whether to secure your software supply chain, but rather what is the most effective and efficient way to provide end-to-end security during all phases of the software development lifecycle (SDLC).

Download the Ebook
The Problem
Managing to control all the ways attackers can exploit the software supply chain is endless, and attempting to cover every possible scenario is basically impossible. To provide effective security for all seven stages of development, security professionals need to effectively identify the potential sources for vulnerabilities, detect potential threats, prioritize them and remediate only what is truly necessary to prevent exploitation.
While there are many effective security tools  for providing protection at each stage of development, having too many tools can result in:

Lack of centralized management
No communications between tools
Siloed security and management operations
Multiple sources of truth
Limited visibility across the entire SDLC
Slow response time to breaches in security
The price enterprises pay for multiple point solutions isn’t just financial, but should also consider the complexity and hassle of dealing with vendor evaluations, procurement, integration, maintenance and troubleshooting of so many disparate tools.

The Solution
One of the best ways to battle having too many tools is to take a platform approach.  This helps unify the software supply chain, streamline security operations, increase developer efficiency and reduce risks associated with open source packages. It also enables scalability, while providing a single system of record and end-to-end traceability for threat analysis, licensing, compliance and governance.
To make the right choices for securing your software supply chain, it’s important to prioritize your security requirements and understand the impact that tool selection or platform adoption can have on your software development operations and protecting your business.
That’s why we are pleased to offer our Secure the Software Supply Chain the Hard Way, or Choose the Platform Way eBook. Please download your free copy and start making smarter choices on the best way to protect your software business now and in the future.