

At swampUP 2024 in Austin just a few days ago, we explored the EveryOps Matters approach with the crowd of developers, driven by a consolidated view from their companies’ boardrooms and 2024 CIO surveys.
The message was clear: “EveryOps” isn’t just a strategy or tech trend —  it’s a fundamental, ongoing mindset shift that must drive developers’ proactive actions in an ever-evolving software landscape.
It’s not optional; it’s essential. Today’s developers are not just contributors; they are the makers and guardians of this transformation, the ones who will define the future of fast and trusted software delivery.
In the past many years, developers and dev teams have been handed unprecedented challenges: deliver faster with DevOps, put the company’s security on your shoulders, engineer platforms for internal use, and now deliver machine learning and AI components as part of applications. DevOps, DevSecOps, MLOps… EveryOps is now the reality of every development team.
But as this world moves quickly forward, how can teams adapt? What is required to stay ahead of the curve? How can we responsibly drive our company initiatives, while taking advantage of the many technologies available?
The answer, as they say, is to “follow the money.” What are the priorities of the CIOs and CISOs of the world as they look to shape these new realities? If we understand their priorities, we can get a glimpse into where the investment is headed. These budgets and decisions will force developers’ hands in the coming years, as the choice for development shops becomes to lead, follow, or get out of the way.
Recently, in CIO surveys done by Wells Fargo, J.P. Morgan, and KeyBanc, we see that CIOs and senior leadership revealed that if economic situations worsened, 30% of companies would first look to eliminate headcount. Another significant cut would be in hardware, and also in enterprise software. What does this tell us?

First, notice that physical “commodities” are the first to go, then software costs. But second, it immediately begs the question: where will the money go as companies look to reinvest?

Interestingly, GenAI and the productivity gains it may provide are a top investment for companies, followed by software and security. So if developers are to “follow the money” and expand their careers in an EveryOps world, understanding these areas, embracing them, learning about them, and expanding their horizons is essential.
To make this reality practical, at swampUP 2024, the community and partners brought amazing innovations and new ideas to the market.
First, it is extremely clear that only a holistic platform that understands the entire development process is required to meet the challenges of today. In fact, Gartner predicts that by 2027, 80% of companies will adopt platforms for DevOps and DevSecOps versus point solutions — only 25% of companies have fully migrated to a platform today. To this end, JFrog announced the availability of JFrog ML, our new solution for building and deploying machine learning models as part of your trusted pipeline. With the recent acquisition of Qwak AI as a core component, JFrog ML helps developers and data scientists collaborate to build, train, deploy, and manage secure ML models using the same practices as DevOps.
Second, it is also very clear that understanding the complete lineage of software from code to runtime is mission-critical for an organization from a pipeline management and security perspective. We were excited to have the CEO of GitHub, Thomas Dohmke, join us virtually and explain how GitHub and JFrog are serving the community by providing deep integrations in platform functionality, including SSO/identity, projects, security dashboards, and more. Finally, the right hand and left hand know what each other is doing.

Third, we were also proud to announce at swampUP the ongoing integration of the JFrog Platform with GitHub Copilot. As the leading AI tool assisting developers today, Copilot chat can now query JFrog about package curation and other tasks that understand your company’s policies. This landmark partnership continues to drive massive developer value and DevSecOps team efficiencies through consolidation of tooling/dashboards and AI.
Fourth, to assist security teams, JFrog took EveryOps to the next level when it comes to security. We were excited to announce a complete “shift-right” in security with the launch of JFrog Runtime Security. This exciting capability allows companies to not just secure and manage their pipeline, but detect vulnerabilities and gain insight into software where it runs in the production environments. For the first time in a single platform, companies can trace the lineage of software from code through production and back with deep metadata and understanding of the complete software lineage.
Finally, JFrog announced a new chapter in bringing the community together in a single source of truth: a collaboration with the world leader in AI, NVIDIA. JFrog and NVIDIA announced the ability to take NVIDIA NIM packages (microservices that provide GPU-optimized ML models) into company pipelines as first-class citizens of JFrog Artifactory. Now joint customers can utilize optimized models to get the most out of their NVIDIA investments in the platform that is already the system of record for their company: the JFrog Platform.
All of these announcements showcased one truth: the future of development is in secure, automated, AI-component-delivering systems, and it takes all of us across digital teams to make it a reality. The new EveryOps-powered world doesn’t require dozens of new point solutions — it requires a single, integrated platform that gives companies an arsenal of functionality.
These groundbreaking announcements would not have become a GA reality without the dedication of our FROGs — the JFrog employees. They not only serve the community but are also inspired and driven by its collective wisdom, fully committed to alleviating developer pain points in an EveryOps world.
We will reconvene in Napa Valley in 2025 at the next swampUP to celebrate everything you’re driving forward today.
I look forward to seeing what you create and innovate with to build the next generation of applications. This is an exciting time, and I’m honored you’re partnering with us, trusting us, and building with the community on this amazing ride. You will adapt, evolve, and expand your skills to meet the world’s new challenges; I’m sure of it.
May the Frog be with you!
Shlomi