

The DevOps and security market is estimated to reach $45B in 2031 with 19.7% CAGR. Want to get a slice of the pie? At JFrog, we believe that collaboration is the key to unlocking extraordinary outcomes. Serving 89 of the Fortune 100 companies, more than half of the Fortune 500 companies, and growing rapidly with emerging and growth companies, the JFrog Platform is what organizations are seeking to simplify and secure their software supply chain. The JFrog Platform powers organizations to curate, build, secure, and automate software updates to the edge!
Partner with a cloud-first company
JFrog cloud revenues grew 49% year over year in Q1 of 2023. This reflects the fact that JFrog hybrid and multi-cloud solutions reduce complexity by consolidating DevOps and security functions in one place, while offering organizations the freedom to be cloud agnostic with multi-cloud solutions. Customers can manage their software releases across cloud platforms from a single control plain. This offers a simplified solution for our partners who leverage cloud service providers in their managed security offerings.
Get connected at JFrog Partner Day
This year’s first ever JFrog Partner Day is an exciting event that brings together current and prospective JFrog partners for a day of collaboration, learning, and growth. It’s a great opportunity to attend dedicated technical  training by JFrog Academy, get insights, and receive training on the JFrog Platform and how to maximize its value for your customers. Shlomi Ben Haim, JFrog CEO and co-founder, will share his vision on DevSecOps and the importance of partners to JFrog’s future.
JFrog Partner Day is intended for sales and technical leaders for innovative consulting firms, systems integrators, Managed Services Providers, and Technology Partners who are ready to capitalize on opportunities from the rapidly expanding DevSecOps market. JFrog makes it easy and rewarding for our partners through an innovative program framework with the goal of providing a personalized and flexible experience to all partners.
JFrog’s Partner Day is co-located with swampUP 2023, JFrog’s annual user conference. Partner attendees will have the opportunity to speak with customers, watch product demos, and attend breakouts on specific technologies. The combination of these two events will equip you with everything you need to successfully grow your DevOps and DevSecOps business.
Take your DevOps and DevSecOps to the next level at JFrog Partner Day. Register now to get access to both swampUP 2023 and Partner Day!