

Being innovative is like being handsome. It only counts when others think so. When Bank of America honors you for being innovative and improving how their 30,000 developers perform, it’s a very handsome compliment.
At the 11th Bank of America Technology Innovation Summit, JFrog was recognized for industrial leadership and excellence in providing global business solutions. This year, JFrog was one of only two technology companies honored for its strong partnership with the firm.

JFrog CEO Shlomi Ben Haim (right) accepts the honor for innovation from Bank of America CTO Howard Boville (center), as JFrog CFO Jacob Shulman (left) looks on.
Financial services companies are some of the most demanding development environments in the world, replete with regulations, standards, security requirements and often decades of legacy technology sprawl to tie together.
That’s why this recognition of JFrog’s decade-plus record of enabling digital transformation and global enterprise success is so amazing and gratifying. One of the world’s largest financial institutions, Bank of America’s digital enterprise operations support approximately 4,300 retail financial centers, approximately 16,600 ATMs; and award-winning digital banking with nearly 38 million active users, including approximately 29 million mobile users.
Bank of America is among more than 60 leading global financial companies – including JPMorgan Chase, CapitalOne, Morgan Stanley, Barclay’s, Fidelity, Wells Fargo, and Citibank to name a few – that rely on JFrog’s DevOps products and solutions. And these are some of the key reasons they do:

Providing one single source of truth to all types of software packages (binary code).
Enterprise-ready solutions with replication and high availability that infinitely scale.
Freedom to choose on-prem, multi-cloud, or both to enable a true hybrid infrastructure.
Security through Xray universal component analysis for best-in-class vulnerability identification and license compliance.
Integration with all major tools in the market.
End-to-end DevSecOps automation with JFrog Pipelines CI/CD.
The JFrog Platform provides a fast, secure, end-to-end solution for continuous update flows and Liquid Software. Coming soon, even more unification and standardization within the platform will provide a tightly-integrated DevSecOps experience that speeds software distribution from developers to end users, everything that lands between your Git repository to Kubernetes.
We’re honored to be recognized by Bank of America for our “truly innovative work in helping enterprises build liquid software!.” JFrog prides itself on driving innovation that eliminates the pain of software updates and changing the way the world operates by focusing on speed, trust and developer efficiency to allow a smooth and fearless digital transformation.
To learn more, send us an inquiry at team@jfrog.com and arrange for a one-on-one consultation. We’re proud of the praise that enterprises like Bank of America have given us. We would be honored to show you how we’ve earned it.