

As an integrator or government agency providing mission-critical software, the question to ask yourself is “Is my software development environment NIST SP 800-218 compliant?”. Compliance with NIST SP 800-218 and the SSDF (Secure Software Development Framework) is mandatory, and it’s time to ensure your software supply chain is compliant.
Government agencies must release software reliably, confidently, and on schedule to empower public servants to serve citizens with modern applications and digital services. Simultaneously, they need to ensure that software is secure and compliant to prevent cyber-attacks and meet IT transformation goals. To accomplish these goals, the Government came up with NIST 800-218 guidelines on how to develop software using a SSDF.
The 4 Practice Areas of the NIST-800-218 Compliance Requirements
NIST SP 800-218, SSDF Regulatory Compliance
SSDF is a core set of secure software development practices that can be integrated into each SDLC implementation. Following these practices should help software producers reduce the number of vulnerabilities in released software, mitigate the potential impact of the exploitation of undetected or unaddressed vulnerabilities, and address the root causes of vulnerabilities to prevent future recurrences.
JFrog Platform support for these operational efficiencies includes:

Product Readiness: making sure products can be consumed by the government accreditations such as FedRamp, FISMA or getting positioning documents to pass audits or gaining Authority to Operate (ATO)
Product Alignment: The government procures software based on how well the product meets the criteria and guidelines met by the product rather than the capabilities, henceforth, the product needs to align its capabilities with the policies.
JFrog addresses alignment to core guidelines NIST 800-218 and NIST 800-171 along with FIPS, NSM-8 packaging of Executive Order for IC communities.
Executive Order 14028
Executive Order 14028 (EO 14028) on improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity requires federal civilian agencies to establish plans to drive the adoption of a Zero Trust Architecture. EO 14028 directed NIST to issue guidance “Identifying practices that enhance the security of the software supply chain”. NIST defines the best practices on development frameworks so agencies can avoid hacks such as SolarWinds, and log4j vulnerabilities and how to avoid nefarious artifacts that get into public repositories by a secure curation process that integrators are building into products.

The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in adherence with NIST guidelines, is now asking every piece of software that the government consumes needs to be attested by the software producer. The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) is now the arbitrator mandating dates when agencies need to produce the attestation letter – six months after the common form was approved. The NSM-8 National Security Memorandum implements the cybersecurity requirements of EO 14028 for National Security Systems (NSS) – networks across the U.S. Government that contain classified information or are otherwise critical to military and intelligence activities.
Why Choose the JFrog Software Supply Chain Platform?
The JFrog Software Supply Chain Platform provides government agencies with the toolkit to navigate the crossroads of DevOps innovation and NIST SP 800-218, SSDF regulatory compliance. The JFrog Software Supply Chain Platform oversees the complete software development lifecycle, from code development to production. Our security-first approach has taken FISMA, NIST SP 800-161.r1, NIST SP 800-171 (CMMC) standards into consideration.
The JFrog Software Supply Chain Platform is a single system of record that powers organizations to build, manage, and distribute trusted software quickly and securely in a unified platform. The integrated advanced security features help identify, protect, and remediate against known and unknown security threats and vulnerabilities.
The JFrog Platform Support of the NIST SP 800-218 Practice Areas
JFrog Cyber Security Research Team
JFrog’s dedicated team of security engineers and researchers is committed to advancing software security through the discovery, analysis, and exposure of new security vulnerabilities and attack methods.
They respond promptly with deep research, rapidly updating our vulnerability database, and disclosing new CVEs as a registered CNA (CVE Numbering Authority). Their research enhances the CVE data and advanced algorithms used in the JFrog Platform, providing more scanning capabilities, CVE details, context, and developer step-by-step remediation.
Learn how JFrog can be your NIST SP 800-218 compliance partner for your software development.