
Following Linux kernel vulnerabilities have been addressed in Ubuntu security updates for different Linux kernel packages in Ubuntu 20.04 LTS and Ubuntu 18.04 ESM.

CVE-2021-4001
A race condition within the eBPF implementation in the Linux kernel was identified, revealing a security issue involving read-only maps. An attacker with privileged access could potentially exploit this flaw to alter read-only maps.
CVE-2023-1206
A significant number of hash collisions in the connection lookup table were detected within the IPv6 implementation of the Linux kernel. A remote attacker could leverage this vulnerability to initiate a denial of service attack, leading to excessive CPU consumption.
CVE-2023-3212
Yang Lan identified a potential null pointer dereference vulnerability within the GFS2 file system implementation in the Linux kernel. In specific scenarios, an attacker could exploit this flaw to craft a malicious GFS2 image that, when mounted and manipulated, could lead to a system crash, resulting in a denial of service.
CVE-2023-3338
Davide Ornaghi identified a null pointer dereference flaw within the DECnet network protocol implementation in the Linux kernel. A remote attacker could exploit this vulnerability to trigger a denial of service (system crash) or potentially execute arbitrary code. It’s important to highlight that to address this CVE, kernel support for DECnet has been removed.
CVE-2023-3863
A use-after-free vulnerability was identified in the NFC implementation within the Linux kernel when engaging in peer-to-peer communication under specific conditions. An attacker with privileged access could exploit this flaw to induce a denial of service (system crash) or potentially expose sensitive information, such as kernel memory.
CVE-2023-4194
A vulnerability was found in the TUN/TAP driver of the Linux kernel, where socket data initialization was not performed correctly. A local attacker could leverage this flaw to trigger a denial of service, resulting in a system crash.
Final Thoughts
It is essential to perform a standard system update to address these Linux kernel vulnerabilities. You can find the updated package versions in the Ubuntu security notice. After a regular system update, it is necessary to restart your computer to implement all the required changes.
For rebootless patching, you can consider using KernelCare Enterprise, a one-stop live patching solution for all major Linux distributions, including Ubuntu, Debian, RHEL, CentOS, AlmaLinux, Oracle Linux, and more. KernelCare automatically applies all security patches without requiring a system reboot or maintenance windows.
Find how live patching works with KernelCare Enterprise and speak to our Linux security expert to get started.
The sources for this article include a story from USN-6417-1.