
We’re excited to announce the launch of our new TuxCare Support Portal, a comprehensive information repository designed to facilitate access to all the information you need to make your experience with TuxCare solutions as easy as it was designed to be..

The portal is crafted to provide immediate access to solutions and answers for any problems or questions that may arise while using any of TuxCare’s robust product offerings, including KernelCare Enterprise live patching, the multiple Extended Lifecycle Support services, and more.
Know More, Do More
The TuxCare Support Portal offers insights into the roadmaps of our products. It’s a window into the future, showcasing upcoming and exciting features. You can now stay abreast of what’s coming and plan accordingly.
We’ve opened the door for you to suggest new features and enhancements that you believe would make your specific use case more efficient, faster, or simply easier. We’re listening, and we want to evolve in a way that best serves your needs.
A Centralized Information Source
We realized that storing duplicate support information across multiple sites, while comprehensive, could be confusing for our users. For that reason, we decided to centralize everything – from documentation and CVE dashboards to FAQs and configuration suggestions. All these are accessible in one place, just a few clicks away, thanks to the new centralized search feature. This feature enables you to search across all sources of information in a single hub, saving your time and making the process more efficient.
Knowledge Base and Blog Announcements
Our revamped Knowledge Base is loaded with up-to-date information about new features, operational tips, configuration suggestions, and much more. It is your guide to a smoother and more intuitive use of all TuxCare products.
Stay informed with our blog announcements where we share Linux security news, tips and tricks, in-depth subject analysis, and updates on a multitude of Linux and open-source-related content and platforms. These announcements also cover new feature releases and detailed change information, keeping you ahead of the curve.
An Engaging Community and Unmatched Support
Join our forum to collaborate, troubleshoot, and learn with other TuxCare users, developers, and moderators. It’s a dynamic space for a more engaged interaction, designed to foster a supportive and learning community.
For any information not covered in our Support Portal, feel free to submit a personalized request for assistance. Our top-notch support team is always ready to assist you, providing solutions tailored to your unique needs.
Our goal with the TuxCare Support Portal is to provide you with an intuitive, efficient, and comprehensive platform for all your TuxCare-related needs. We hope you find it useful and look forward to your feedback. Enjoy exploring!