
The U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) has released a free and open-source tool called Decider to assist defenders in mapping adversary behavior to the MITRE ATT&CK architecture.
Decider is a software tool designed to simplify the process of mapping adversary behavior to the MITRE ATT&CK framework. It streamlines the mapping process by prompting users with guided questions in plain English about the adversary’s actions. It helps users by selecting the appropriate tactics, techniques, or sub-techniques.
CISA’s Decider offers a collection of standard security controls that can be effortlessly aligned with the tactics and techniques of the ATT&CK framework. Additionally, it enables the creation of custom mappings for any additional controls that an organization employs.
This customized approach results in a more precise and personalized mapping process. As a result, it helps organizations identify potential vulnerabilities in their security controls and prioritize their efforts to fortify their overall security posture.
The MITRE ATT&CK framework is a matrix-based knowledge base of adversary tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs), which assists defenders in recognizing, comprehending, and mitigating cyber threats.
There are various benefits of assisting defenders in mapping adversary behavior to the MITRE ATT&CK architecture. For example, defenders can gain a comprehending understanding of the tactics and techniques used by the adversary during an attack. It can aid in threat detection and response, situational awareness, and the development of effective defense strategies.
Moreover, defenders can improve their ability to detect and respond to attacks. It also enables defenders to identify the attack stage and take necessary steps to block or minimize the damage.
Comprehending adversary tactics and techniques assists defenders in tailoring their defense strategy to prevent future attacks. It helps defenders to take proactive measures to enhance their security posture and reduce the risk of successful attacks.
Meanwhile, the Decider tool is available to download from the CISA GitHub repository. As it is a web application, you must host it before using it. Decider is compatible with Enterprise ATT&CK 11.0 and 12.0.

The sources for this article include a story from OpensourceForU.