
Today TuxCare opens a survey on Patch Management of QEMU/KVM-based systems, which has a goal to create a better understanding of current practices and methodologies employed in the industry. Participate in the survey for a chance to win one of three CCNA certifications from Cisco.

The results of this survey will be made available publicly to assist decision-makers and system administrators in their operations planning. Patching virtualization host systems is always challenging due to the impact on the performance and availability of the virtual machines running on those systems. Let’s analyze the state of QEMU/KVM-based systems patching and find more insight to increase the security of your running VMs and work out the best practices in the industry.
Participating in the survey will also help the TuxCare team to address the industry needs in our recently launched QEMUCare service.
QEMUCare simplifies the process of patching QEMU/KVM-based hosts by removing the need for migrating virtual machines away from the systems being updated. This saves considerable time and makes bandwidth available to update the whole infrastructure. Also, security updates are deployed almost immediately as they are made available, reducing the system exposure time to security vulnerabilities. QEMUCare Live Patching operates through a similar mechanism to other TuxCare live patching services, like KernelCare Enterprise and LibraryCare, where updates are applied without any disruption to the running processes. Virtual machines running on the updated systems will not be paused, migrated, or in any way affected by the process. This is a faster, less resource-intensive, and less disruptive approach than current industry best practices, which require live migration of the virtual machines to other systems while the hosts are updated.
The survey on the Patch Management of QEMU/KVM-based systems is anonymous, but please make sure to leave your corporate email address if you would like to participate in the raffle.
Get a FREE 7-Day Supported Trial of KernelCare