
Red Hat has announced the release of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.2, the latest update to their Red Hat Enterprise Linux operating system series. RHEL 9.2 Linux has released six months after the previous version, RHEL 9.1.
New RHEL 9.2 includes a variety of new features and improvements, along with all the latest security fixes and package updates, which we will explain in this blog post.

New Features in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.2
One of the key improvements in this update is support for 64k page sizes for Arm architecture, which allows for the deployment of the operating system on a broader range of hardware and optimizes performance for larger data sets. In addition, the system roles have been expanded to provide greater automation for management tasks.
Red Hat’s container management tool, Podman also received updates with new features and enhancements for Linux platforms. With the release of RHEL 9.2, administrators can automate their specific configurations and environments using the new Red Hat Enterprise Linux system role for Podman. This system role eliminates the need for command-line knowledge while providing a high degree of customization. Furthermore, the RHEL 9.2 update improves several other system roles, allowing for the automation of SQL Server/Active Directory authentication, support for SQL Server 2022, and Always-On availability group support.
RHEL 9.2 includes enhancements tailored for the hybrid cloud environment. With Red Hat’s Image Builder tool, administrators can now incorporate organization-specific security policies into generated images, facilitating internal image standardization for air-gapped Linux systems. Additionally, RHEL 9.2 enables the creation and sharing of RHEL blueprints both within and beyond the data center, ensuring consistent image creation and distribution.
This latest version includes improvements for Red Hat Enterprise Linux’s Web Console. For instance, system administrators via the console can configure the automatic unlocking of encrypted disks on root filesystems using NBDE (Network Bound Disk Encryption). Additionally, administrators can select frequently used combinations of system-wide crypto policies.
TuxCare offers KernelCare Enterprise which live patches all popular enterprise Linux distributions, including Red Hat Enterprise Linux. To learn about KernelCare live patching process, visit here.
The sources for this article include a story from 9to5Linux.