
Development teams are frequently under the gun to deliver software quickly, which is difficult to do without modern tools to build, test, and deploy applications efficiently. That’s why Atlassian’s Bitbucket Cloud — a Git-based source code repository service in the cloud that streamlines software development for collaborative teams — was built for both speed and efficiency.
The challenge nearly all organizations face is ensuring development speed and security at the same time. To help developers build and deliver secure applications, the Snyk and Bitbucket integration allows developers to find, fix, and monitor vulnerabilities in their open source dependencies and container images. In this post, we’ll discuss the native integration of Snyk directly in Bitbucket and how it simplifies securing your DevSecOps pipeline.
With Atlassian, the new security tab inside Bitbucket is where developers can start the journey to see risks that exist in dependency files, code base, and container images, so you can resolve them before they are escalated by your security team.
Snyk maintains several integrations with AWS services across the application lifecycle, automating security controls across AWS CodeBuild, AWS CodePipeline, Amazon ECR, Amazon EKS, and several other cloud services. Through these integrations, the security analysts on your team gain visibility into existing vulnerabilities and open source license issues, so they can better prioritize what needs to be resolved.
Snyk and Bitbucket together
Both Snyk and Atlassian share the same goal: helping developers deliver high-quality, secure software faster and easier than ever. With numerous collaboration capabilities, Bitbucket Cloud helps development teams build, test, and deploy software quickly, while Snyk ensures security is a seamless part of the development workflow.
Within the Bitbucket Security tab, developers can see security risks that exist within their code with a centralized view of application vulnerabilities, which allows development teams to prioritize security fixes during development, shifting security to earlier in the software delivery process.
Bitbucket Pipelines are a continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) capability for Bitbucket Cloud. The Snyk Pipe integration helps developers get real-time visibility into open source vulnerabilities within the CI/CD process.
These Snyk integrations empower organizations using Bitbucket to shift towards a DevSecOps approach to software delivery to improve the security posture of their applications.
Bitbucket security with Snyk
Through Snyk’s integrations with Bitbucket and AWS, developer teams gain real-time visibility into any security issues in their code and containers, so they can identify vulnerability fixes early in development and monitor new risks post deployment for applications deployed on AWS.
With this integration, you’ll have the confidence you need to take ownership of cloud security using Bitbucket, AWS and Snyk together to institute a security-first mindset throughout the software development lifecycle.