
We’re excited to announce a new partnership to bring Snyk security insights to ServiceNow workflows. The integration between Snyk Open Source and ServiceNow Application Vulnerability Response, the first of its kind, gives application security teams visibility into vulnerabilities in open source dependencies to provide a complete view of an organization’s application security posture.
In light of wide-reaching software supply chain attacks like Log4Shell and SolarWinds, as well as ransomware threats, organizations need to shore up their ability to eliminate risk across business applications and services. With 70-90 percent of modern software applications containing open source software, bad actors continue to go after the open source artifacts and DevOps pipelines that compromise software supply chains.
The Snyk integration, the first software composition analysis (SCA) integration for ServiceNow, solves this problem with a single view into all of an organization’s open source vulnerabilities, from development to production, for faster remediation, better collaboration, and reduced risk.
Why we’re partnering with ServiceNow
First and foremost, dozens of Snyk customers told us they’d like to bring the Snyk data they already love and trust into ServiceNow.
With newsworthy software supply chain attacks like Log4Shell causing serious damage, greater visibility and tracking of application vulnerabilities are needed to effectively manage risk and ensure nothing falls through the cracks. When open source vulnerabilities are only seen by the development team, the security team can end up blindsided.
We built this integration to address that gap. Now both developers and security can efficiently track application vulnerabilities found across the SDLC. A single view tracking severity, frequency, and scope, results in better coordination with development teams to protect against potential software breaches.
Key benefits include the ability to:

Automatically create and sync ServiceNow tickets from Snyk issues
Prioritize and assign vulnerabilities automatically
Calculate vulnerability risk and determine prioritization using ServiceNow’s risk score calculations combined with Snyk’s industry-leading intelligence
How the integration works
After downloading the Snyk Security for Application Vulnerability Response app from the ServiceNow Store, simply type “Snyk” in the ServiceNow instance to reveal the newly installed Snyk integration. Choose how often you’d like to pull vulnerability scan results scanning data from Snyk Open Source, and configure which scan data you’d like to import, based on organizations, projects, severity, language, exploit maturity, and minimum and maximum priority score ranges.
Snyk Open Source uses software configuration analysis to continuously monitor your projects and deployed code for vulnerabilities. Any issues found that match the import criteria configured during install are brought into ServiceNow Application Vulnerability Response at regular intervals as Application Vulnerable Items (AVITs). The AVITs are automatically prioritized using a custom Snyk vulnerability calculator, factoring in severity and impact to mission-critical applications.  ServiceNow workflows can also automatically assign the AVITs to the right groups for remediation.
Snyk Open Source speeds up remediation by providing the right actions to take. Once the vulnerability has been fixed, developers can mark the AVIT in ServiceNow as resolved.
Vulnerabilities can be tracked in ServiceNow dashboards to see the current status, assignments, due dates, and risk all in one place. The data can also be shared with other teams such as Governance Risk and Compliance, to maximize collaboration and transparency across the organization.
Vulnerability information from the Snyk Security for Application Vulnerability Response app — including remediation recommendations.
Availability and getting started
Download the Snyk App from the ServiceNow store.
To learn more about how you can manage application vulnerabilities with Snyk and ServiceNow, you can check out our short video that talks about the benefits of the better together video. Check out all of Snyk's integrations here.
Get started in capture the flag
Learn how to solve capture the flag challenges by watching our virtual 101 workshop on demand.

Automatically create and sync ServiceNow tickets from Snyk issues
Prioritize and assign vulnerabilities automatically
Calculate vulnerability risk and determine prioritization using ServiceNow’s risk score calculations combined with Snyk’s industry-leading intelligence