
We are thrilled to announce that Snyk has achieved Red Hat Vulnerability Scanner Certification, making it one of the few security platforms to receive this certification from Red Hat. This achievement demonstrates Snyk’s ongoing commitment to providing our customers with the highest level of security assurance for their applications.
The Red Hat Vulnerability Scanner Certification
Launched in 2021, the Red Hat Vulnerability Scanner Certification is a rigorous process that requires a thorough review of a security tool’s scanning capabilities and effectiveness. The Snyk platform underwent extensive testing by Red Hat engineers to ensure that it met the highest security standards, validating our platform's ability to accurately detect vulnerabilities in Red Hat components in use across multiple layers, including the operating system and the application itself.
In order to achieve this certification, Snyk integrated Red Hat’s OVAL v2 stream and other Red Hat published security data, then demonstrated correct usage of this data to the Red Hat team to become a Certified Vulnerability Scanner. With this certification, our joint customers can rely on Snyk to provide comprehensive and accurate security scanning for their Red Hat products — such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), Red Hat OpenShift, JBoss, and others — enabling customers to stay a step ahead of potential security threats with fewer false positives.
At Snyk, we are proud to have achieved Red Hat Vulnerability Scanner Certification and are excited to offer our customers enhanced security capabilities for their digital transformations.
The Snyk and Red Hat partnership
Since Snyk and Red Hat began partnering in 2020, we’ve made it easier for developers to build secure applications on Red Hat’s OpenShift platform. Snyk’s OpenShift Monitor, a Red Hat Certified Operator, scans OpenShift workloads for vulnerable open source libraries and insecure configurations to present developers with the information they need to fix those issues. Red Hat also partnered with Snyk on the Dependency Analytics IDE Plugin — allowing developers to easily find and fix open source vulnerabilities from their IDEs, before deploying to Production.
With this certification, our customers can rest assured that their Red Hat-based environments are protected from potential security threats. Customers of Snyk, our OpenShift Monitor, and Dependency Analytics now have access to the latest Red Hat published data in real-time from any of these integration points.