
The TuxCare team is thrilled to congratulate our CRO Michael Canavan for being named as one of the International Best in Biz award winners – taking home the silver medal in the Executive of the Year category.

At TuxCare, Mr. Canavan has successfully furthered the organization’s position as a leading innovator in enterprise Linux security, enabling organizations around the world to modernize their vulnerability patching approach, minimize downtime, and better protect their users’ sensitive information. Most recently, this was exemplified by TuxCare’s 2024 Global Infosec Award of Best Solution in Vulnerability Management-as-a-Service from Cyber Defense Magazine (CDM).

Both as CRO and SVP of Sales, the role he held before rising to CRO, Mr. Canavan has led sales, revenue, and marketing efforts while TuxCare accumulated a number of additional awards, including the 2023 Merit Awards for Technology, the Gold Award for the 2023 Cybersecurity Excellence Awards, among several others.

Mr. Canavan’s leadership has been instrumental in driving TuxCare’s continued recognition within the industry, further solidifying its reputation in the Open Source Security and Enterprise Linux Security spaces. This legacy of achievement aligns seamlessly with the prestige and credibility of programs like the Best in Biz Awards, which celebrate outstanding accomplishments through a strict and highly respected evaluation process.

Since 2011, the Best in Biz Awards has stood out as the sole business awards program evaluated by independent panels of distinguished writers and editors from leading publications. From Forbes and Fortune to Reuters and the Wall Street Journal, the awards are judged annually by a prestigious group of reporters and editors from the industry’s most respected outlets.

Each year, the Best in Biz Awards maintains rigorous scoring standards to ensure the consistent excellence of its winning entries. Judges are exclusively selected from editors, writers, and contributors to business, consumer, financial, trade, and technology publications, as well as broadcast outlets and analyst firms. Their exceptional expertise, diverse backgrounds, and representation of a wide range of publications make the judging panels uniquely qualified to objectively identify the best among hundreds of competitive entries. This process guarantees consistently high levels of innovation, achievement, and creativity among the winners year after year.

This year’s panel featured editors, writers, and broadcasters from publications such as Computer Hoy (Spain), HTMAG (Israel), Huffington Post, NDR (Germany), Irish Independent (Ireland), Data Breach Today (UK), InBusiness (Cyprus and Greece), Panorama Magazine (United Arab Emirates), TechRadar (UK), and Small Business IT (Canada), along with representatives from outlets across Australia, Canada, Brazil, India, New Zealand, Indonesia, Nigeria, the United Kingdom, and more.
