
Canonical has officially released Ubuntu 22.04.5 LTS, the fifth and final planned point release of the popular Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish) series. This long-term supported operating system brings the latest security updates, bug fixes, and software improvements to ensure users have a stable and secure environment. If you’re considering installing or updating Ubuntu, here’s what you need to know about this important release.

What’s New in Ubuntu 22.04.5 LTS?

One of the most significant updates in this point release is the inclusion of the Linux kernel 6.8 from the Ubuntu 24.04 LTS (Noble Numbat) series. This new kernel version improves hardware support, making it an ideal choice for users looking to install Ubuntu on modern machines with cutting-edge hardware.
While Ubuntu 22.04.5 LTS includes an updated kernel, the graphics stack remains unchanged from the previous release. The Mesa 23.2.1 graphics stack is still the default, even though the newer Mesa 24.0 version is available in Ubuntu 24.04 LTS.
Released approximately six and a half months after the previous date, Ubuntu 22.04.5 LTS offers up-to-date installation media, making it easier for users to install the latest version of Ubuntu without needing to download and install hundreds of updates afterward. Whether you are setting up a new system or refreshing an old one, Ubuntu 22.04.5 simplifies the installation process.

Official Flavors Updated

Alongside the main Ubuntu release, all official flavors of Ubuntu have also been updated to 22.04.5 LTS, including Kubuntu, Xubuntu, Lubuntu, Ubuntu Studio, Ubuntu Budgie, Ubuntu MATE, and Ubuntu Kylin. Users of these flavors will benefit from the same security updates and bug fixes as the main Ubuntu release, ensuring a consistent experience across the entire Ubuntu family.

Getting Ubuntu 22.04.5 LTS

As a long-term support release, Ubuntu 22.04 LTS will receive updates until June 2027. This gives users a three-year window of ongoing support, making it a solid choice for those looking to maintain a stable environment for extended periods. However, for those seeking even longer support and more cutting-edge features, Canonical encourages users to explore Ubuntu 24.04 LTS, which will be supported until 2029.
If you are already running Ubuntu 22.04 LTS, you don’t need to download a new installation image. You can simply update your current system using the Software Updater utility or by running the following command in the terminal:
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
This will bring your system up to date with all the improvements included in Ubuntu 22.04.5 LTS without needing to perform a fresh installation.

Upgrading to Ubuntu 24.04 LTS

For users looking to move on to a more recent version, an upgrade path to Ubuntu 24.04 LTS is also available. In the Software Updater utility, you can see the notification “Ubuntu 24.04.1 LTS is now available (you have 22.04). By clicking on the upgrade option, you can migrate to the latest LTS release while preserving your system’s stability and configurations.
While Ubuntu 22.04.5 LTS is a great option, upgrading to Ubuntu 24.04 LTS might be a better choice for a longer-term commitment. Ubuntu 24.04 LTS offers five years of support until June 2029 and includes more modern GNU/Linux technologies and software. At the time of writing, the latest available version is Ubuntu 24.04.1 LTS, released on August 29, 2024.

For enhancing the security of your Linux systems, consider utilizing KernelCare Enterprise live patching solution. It allows you to apply security updates to a running kernel without having to reboot the systems. Furthermore, KernelCare automates the patching process, ensuring security patches are deployed as soon as they are available.
KernelCare Enterprise supports a wide range of Linux distributions, including Ubuntu, Debian, RHEL, CentOS, RHEL, AlmaLinux, Rocky Linux, Oracle Linux, and more. You can also enable live patching for shared libraries like glibc and OpenSSL with LibCare, an add-on tool to KernelCare Enterprise.

The sources for this article include a story from 9to5Linux.
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade