
Linux Lite, an Ubuntu-based distribution designed to run smoothly on less powerful hardware, has released a fresh version 6.4 for download.
Linux Lite 6.4 is built on the Ubuntu 22.04.2 LTS point release and runs on Linux kernel 5.15 from that series. The desktop environment is Xfce 4.18, which provides the core user interface along with its associated software.

What’s New in Linux Lite 6.4?
Linux Lite 6.4 is said to be built upon the foundations laid out in Linux Lite 6.2 with some new exciting features which will help users who have a wide range of machines. It is a wonderful choice for both new and experienced Linux users because it is a lightweight and easy-to-use operating system.

Zstd Compression
One major improvement in Linux Lite 6.4 is the repacking of their in-house apps using the Zstd compression. This results in faster decompression and better compression, thereby reducing the storage footprint of these in-house apps.
For example, the Lite Themes app has been reduced to 76.8 MB from 91.2 MB. This new compression technique will especially benefit systems with slower processors as it significantly speeds up the application update process.
Therefore, it is an important upgrade for individuals who use slower machines. Even modern PCs can get benefit from lightning-fast updates with this compression feature.

Systemd Report
Another nice addition is the systemd report which is also a part of the Lite System Report now. Systemd is a fundamental component of Linux systems that initiates the boot process for the entire system. The Systemd report will help users identify booting problems and other general system issues.
Moreover, it will also make it easier for the support staff to assist users with their issues on the forums.

New Thunderbird
Linux Lite 6.4 also brings a new updated version (102.9) of the popular email client, Thunderbird. Thunderbird version 102.9 features an updated appearance with refreshed icons, a revamped address book, and message header customization options. Additionally, Thunderbird now offers an import/export wizard and Matrix chat support.

Improved WebP Support
Thunar file manager is updated to 4.16.10 and finally displays thumbnails of WebP images correctly, instead of a placeholder image. This should make it easy for users to work with WebP images without needing to open files one by one to check.

Conclusion
To sum up, Linux Lite is definitely worth trying out if you haven’t already. It is available to download from the official website. If you are already using a previous release of Linux Lite, you can upgrade it to the latest version.
You can find the release notes for known issues and installation instructions here.

The sources for this article include a story from It’s FOSS News.