
TuxCare is pleased to announce it was honored in this year’s inaugural Merit Awards for Technology. Recognized with a silver win in the information security category, the company was recognized for its excellence in patch management and consistent advancement in the market with more than 1,500 enterprise customers that depend on TuxCare for its vital security services.
Designed to recognize the efforts put forth by global industries and the markets they serve, the Merit Awards acknowledge companies that have contributed to the continued growth of the market worldwide. The program’s judges include respected journalists, executives, consultants, entrepreneurs, educators and the Merit Awards staff. Currently, there are seven separate awards programs that are open to all organizations operating within each sector.
“TuxCare is pleased to be one of the inaugural winners of the Merit Awards in Technology based on our commitment to offering rapid security patching and extended lifecycle support services that greatly reduce risk and automate security operations for our customers,” said Jim Jackson, President and Chief Revenue Officer at TuxCare. “This recognition highlights our dedication to remaining the innovation leader in our industry and to build and maintain positive customer relationships with organizations around the world.”
In the official winner announcement, Marie Zander, executive director of the Merit Awards, said, “The submissions for the 2022 Merit Awards for Technology were overwhelmingly filled with content that communicated the depth and reach technology has on our lives. We applaud each of this year’s winners and look forward to their continued successes.”
A full list of winners is available here:
https://www.merit-awards.com/winners-technology-category
About TuxCare
TuxCare is on a mission to reduce the world’s risk of cyber exploitation. Through its automated live security patching solutions and extended lifecycle support services for Linux and open source software and languages, TuxCare allows thousands of organizations to rapidly remediate vulnerabilities for increased security and compliance.  The world’s largest enterprises, government agencies, service providers, universities, and research institutions are protected by TuxCare on over one million workloads and growing.  For more information, go to www.tuxcare.com.