
Canonical’s Ubuntu 24.04 LTS, codenamed “Noble Numbat” has received its first major update: Ubuntu 24.04.1. This release, which arrived a bit later than initially planned due to some high-impact bugs, brings a host of improvements and enhancements to the popular Linux distribution.

What’s New in Ubuntu 24.04.1 LTS?

This point release is essentially a repackaging of all the bug fixes, application updates, and performance improvements released since the initial launch of Ubuntu 24.04 LTS on April 25, 2024. The update ensures users benefit from the latest security patches and stability enhancements, making it a compelling upgrade for both new and existing users.

Enhanced GNOME 46: The updated GNOME desktop environment offers improved usability and performance, including better file. management search, expandable notifications, and more intuitive settings.

Streamlined Installation: The installer now features ZFS encryption and integrated autoinstall support, making it easier and more secure to set up Ubuntu.

Improved App Center and Firmware Updates: The new App Center and dedicated firmware update app provides a more robust user experience.

Developer-Friendly Features: Ubuntu 24.04.1 ships with the latest toolchains for popular programming languages like Python, Rust, Ruby, Go, PHP, and Perl.

Enterprise-Ready Features: Netplan 1.0 allows for comprehensive networking configuration, and enhanced Windows ecosystem compatibility makes Ubuntu a great choice for enterprise environments.

Enhanced Security: The update includes more robust distribution options for PPAs, tightened restrictions in AppArmor, and refined package installation processes.

Upgrade and Installation Options

In-Place Upgrade for Ubuntu 22.04 LTS Users: Users still on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS can easily upgrade to 24.04.1. The new release offers a seamless in-place upgrade path, and 22.04 users will soon receive notifications prompting them to upgrade directly from their desktops via the Update Manager app.
Command Line Upgrade for Ubuntu 24.04 LTS Users: For current 24.04 LTS users, upgrading to the new release is straightforward. Simply execute the command sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade in the terminal to get the latest updates.
Fresh Install with Updated ISO Images: For those opting for a fresh installation, updated ISO images of Ubuntu 24.04.1 are available for download. The official release notes provide detailed information on all the changes and improvements included in this update.

Official Flavors and Community Editions

In addition to the flagship Ubuntu 24.04, all official Ubuntu flavors, including Kubuntu, Ubuntu Budgie, Ubuntu MATE, Lubuntu, Ubuntu Kylin, Ubuntu Studio, Xubuntu, Edubuntu, and Ubuntu Cinnamon, have also been updated to version 24.04.1. Each flavor retains its unique desktop environment and feature set, providing users with a variety of options tailored to different needs and preferences.

Conclusion

With its numerous improvements and enhancements, it offers a more secure, stable, and feature-rich experience for both desktop and server users. Whether you’re a developer, system administrator, or casual user, Ubuntu 24.04.1 is well worth considering.
To further enhance your security posture, consider exploring live patching solutions. Live patching allows you to apply critical kernel security patches without requiring a system reboot, minimizing downtime and reducing the risk of vulnerabilities.
One popular option is TuxCare’s KernelCare Enterprise, which offers automated live patching for a wide range of Linux distributions, including Ubuntu, Debian, RHEL, CentOS, CentOS Stream, AlmaLinux, Amazon Linux, CloudLinux, Oracle Linux, and more. By implementing live kernel patching, you can ensure that your systems are always protected against the latest kernel vulnerabilities.

The sources for this article include a story from Linuxiac.
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade