
As per recent media reports, Ukrainian hackers attacked Russia’s state media company. VGTRK, on Valdimar Putin’s birthday. While there was no severe damage, the attack did disrupt various operations of the media company. In this article, we’ll dive into the attack and uncover all the details. Let’s begin!
Ukrainian Hackers Russian Media Attack Uncovered
VGTRK, the media company that fell prey to the threat actors, has reported that the attack took place on October 7th. Although minor disruptions prevailed as a result of the attack, both radio and television broadcast continued as usual.
However, it’s worth mentioning that another Russian media company has reported that hackers wiped information from the company’s servers and backups. Media reports covering the attack have cited it as Ukrainian hackers congratulating Putin on his birthday.
As of now, it’s believed that the Ukrainian hackers behind the attack are a group called Sudo rm-RF. The Russian government has investigated the attack and has said that it aligns with the West’s anti-Russian agenda.
Commenting on the culprits and motive of this Ukrainian hackers attack, the Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova has stated that:
“Who is behind a specific attack will be determined by the competent authorities and departments, but we understand that when the collective West says that it is aiming to inflict a strategic defeat on Russia, this includes an attack on the media.”
Hybrid War: Russia vs. Ukraine
Cyberattacks such as this one have been categorized as an element of hybrid war. It’s worth mentioning that such attacks have continued to prevail ever since the Russia-Ukraine conflict started in early 2022.
The Ukrainian government has recently published a report stating that the nation has experienced 1,739 cyber attacks in the first half of 2024. This number is a 19% increase when compared to attacks the nation faced in the last half of 2023.
These attacks have mainly targeted security, defense, and energy sectors. Out of the attacks that Ukraine has experienced, 48 were categorized as critical or highly severe. Russia, on the other hand, has also experienced some cyberattacks from Ukrainian hackers.
Providing insights on countermeasures that will be adopted by Russia for this, and other, Ukrainian hackers attack, spokesperson Maria Zakharova, mentioned that:
“As for countermeasures, you understand perfectly well that copying criminal activity (would mean – IF) is to engage in it yourself. But this issue will be raised at international venues, both in the United Nations and in UNESCO, which is literally obliged to pay attention to this. And this topic will also be raised at other international venue.”
Conclusion
These hybrid ware attacks are conducted with the fundamental aim of decapitating the opposing nation’s online infrastructure, which may eventually lead to military or combat advantages. Such attacks also serve as an indicator towards the complex techniques that are now being used by Ukrainian hackers like Sudo rm-RF and others.
Insight from these attack methodologies and tactics must be comprehended so that proactive security protocols can be developed and deployed for protection.
The sources for this piece include articles in The Hacker News and Reuters.