
Hunting for Malicious Code: The Dangers of WASP Stealer
Tal Folkman
Follow
checkmarx-security
13
Listen
Share
WASP Stealer, for those of you who aren’t familiar, is an open-source malware created by loTus04 that is designed to steal sensitive information from a victim’s computer. It has several features that make it particularly effective at this task. For example, it can steal saved passwords, browser cookies, and PC information. Additionally, it can steal Discord tokens from browsers and the Discord app, and it can get all the information associated with these tokens, such as the user’s email, nitro/badge, and rare friends.
Fake GitHub Profiles
A new trending concern is attackers create fake profiles to host malware disguised as legitimate projects and silently include malicious dependencies and harmful code. We see many attackers take advantage of the unvetted ecosystem where anyone with a working email address can create a new profile and claim false facts about himself.
This attack technique sounds simple but it is quite effective as many victims land on those fake GitHub profiles and their repositories origin from general search engines and execute the code on their computers.
To build such fake credibility, attackers make their projects appear “pro” by using stats and descriptions stolen from popular users.
Hunting for Malicious Code
As many attackers also copy WASP Stealer open source malware’s code and embed it into fake open source tools at scale, I decided to hunt and report such attackers.
To do so, I used this GitHub search query, and surprisingly, I found dozens of repositories containing the WASP Stealer malicious code.
By simply searching for this query “__import__(‘builtins’).exec” in GitHub, I have found over 100 repos that use this specific malicious code.
Going through all of those results reveals the majority of those attackers use the techniques to hide their malicious payloads from the naked eye by padding it with many spaces so it won’t appear unless scrolled horizontally.
Social Engineering
Most of the malicious repos’ names target victims who search for tools to automate Discord, TikTok, Snapchat and other apps by having project names like — “TikTok-Follow-Views-BotV2” or “discord-boost-bot” and more.
This social engineering scheme had proven to work as seen last month when a victim of a similar campaign tried to use code he found on GitHub, however, it didn’t work as expected and a couple of hours later he noticed that he was under attack.
Attack Hard to Stop
The number of such malicious repos is growing rapidly. Even when the malicious user is being detected, reported, and removed, they can simply create a new identity and relaunch its campaign in a few seconds.
For example, the malicious user “Femelles”, has opened at least 3 different users. “FemellesV11”, “Femelles”, “Femelles01” previously created 6 repositories targeting Discord and TikTok victims, disguised as legit projects; however, all share the same malicious code and receive orders from the same C2 server.
The Hassle of Reporting to GitHub
Once I gathered the information, I wanted to report the findings to GitHub. To report a malicious user, you need to go to the user’s profile, click on the “Block or report” manually fill abuse report, and explain why it is malicious. When wanting to report only one repo it’s not too much effort to do but when having dozens of projects, it’s a little bit harder and not practical.
Conclusion
The original WASP Stealer repository created by loTus04 was taken down by GitHub two weeks ago. Still, this problem is compounded by the difficulty of stopping these attackers, as they can simply create new identities and continue their campaigns with copies of the WASP Stealer malware. Additionally, reporting these malicious users to GitHub is a tedious and time-consuming process.
It is important for users searching for code online to be cautious when downloading and executing code from the internet, and to avoid using tools and software from untrustworthy sources.
List of GitHub projects
Sharing a list of projects containing the WASP Stealer payload