
On Amazon EKS and Kyverno
Dirk Michel
Follow
7
Listen
Share
The Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) security-and-compliance projects are evolving as new threats emerge, and its Security TAG guidance on cloud-native security and supply chain security is becoming more prescriptive in support of the broader ecosystem.
With Amazon EKS, we can offload some of that security work to AWS, as the Amazon EKS service team secures and manages the Kubernetes Control Plane components on our behalf. We can also follow best practices when configuring Amazon EKS infrastructure by observing the Well-Architected Security Pillar, the Container Build Lens, and Amazon EKS Best Practices for Security.
Hardening the Amazon EKS infrastructure is essential, but the workloads and applications we deploy into our clusters are themselves a threat vector.
Many software suppliers establish application security and release engineering teams that work towards reducing the probability of their applications leaking potential vulnerabilities into their customer environments. The sunburst event has further accelerated the work of hardening software build systems to improve their resistance to security events. Equally, organisations are increasing compliance with standards such as the Supply Chain Levels for Software Artefacts (SLSA) framework. A lot of the value that SLSA compliance can create is “cached out” by implementing validation gates on the consumer side.
Kubernetes admission controllers are an effective mechanism for verifying provenance, integrity, and additional metadata that accompany container images before admitting them into Amazon EKS clusters.
Kubernetes admission controllers increase the layered defences we can apply: Kyverno, a CNCF project for Kubernetes native policy management, deploys as a dynamic admission controller that implements validating, generating, and mutating policies to strengthen the “perimeter” of our Kubernetes clusters. This is illustrated in the reference diagram below.
Runtime security, which applies to workloads that have successfully passed through the admission controls, is another discipline covered in a separate blog.
For those on a tight time budget: The TL;DR of the following sections is to show how an Amazon EKS cluster can be provisioned and then further secured with the Kyverno admission controller by applying verification of container image signatures, attestations, and Pod Security Standards (PSS). Kyverno policies can also be used alongside the Kubernetes Pod Security Admission (PSA) controller to enable flexibly-scoped pod security.
Let’s do it.
The AWS Cloud Development Kit (CDK) snippets provide working code to illustrate the creation of Amazon EKS clusters and deployment of the Kyverno controller. CDK lets us use supported programming languages to write compact code that generates AWS CloudFormation. To follow along, you can install Anaconda as your Python virtual environment, cosign, syft, finch or your favourite container management tools, and the CDK toolkit.