
Dependency Management for Packages that aren’t Packages
Shawn Hartsock
Follow
2
Listen
Share
I’ve spent the last year working with Software Supply Chain Security issues and helping to advance the state of practice in the teams that listen to my advice. One area that is going to be a bit of a sore spot is Images for both Containers and Virtual Machines. This is because of how some CI/CD process images for release, they don’t always use techniques that are easily mapped onto pURL or NIST CPE for various reasons.
A colleague forwarded me a blog post which I think captures the problem fairly well: “Container Image Scanning (Vuln/SBOM) Challenge — Capturing the “main” program”
Here’s a condensed scenario I might see in a Jenkins CI/CD:

a build step checks out some source code … 
the source code could be at a pURL-ish location like (truncated hash for brevity): pkg:git/mycorp/grp/team/mysvc@244fd47e07d
the Jenkins CI/CD worker VM will load a builder image based on this source code’s Dockerfile.builder file. We can express this like:
pkg:git/mycorp/grp/team/mysvc@244fd47e07d#Dockerfile.builder
… we might even use that pURL to identify this ephemeral builder and its sBOM independent of the product of the CI/CD itself.
That builder image will be used to compile svc.java to svc.class and create the package svc.jar … But wait! What is this Jar expressed as now? What about dependencies downloaded to make this file? Where do they go?
a. This is NOT readily identified by a pURL inside another pURL
b. The sBOM for this artifact is possibly mixed with the sBOM for the ephemeral builder but its runtime dependencies are different.
This svc.jar is packaged in another container that is published as something like 
… in Docker speak:
registry.mycorp.example.com/grp-team/mysvc:vMyVersion
… or in pURL speak:
pkg:docker/grp-team/mysvc@sha256:244fd4?repository_url=registry.mycorp.example.com
Solutions in the blog post suggest using OCI annotations for the image or embedding an sBOM into the container image itself.
One solution would be: embed either the actual git URL for the code checked out or the company convention for a pURL in an image annotation. This however manages to miss the case where you want to track the builder. That’s because we created the builder image directly inside the CI/CD pipeline itself … and then the actual service jar file was exported from I/O streams that executed inside this ephemeral container.
You could embed an sBOM using a fairly standard tool inside the container image itself. If you wanted evidence from inside the ephemeral build container you could also instrument the containers with in-toto. However you now have at least two novel problems:

how do you manage functionary keys for the containers? (Consider one container is ephemeral and logically embedded inside another one which poses an interesting set of risks to say the least as an attack vector could be to alter the ephemeral build container to exfiltrate private keys no matter how paranoid your PKI is.)
Where is that sBOM file located? Are you prepared for that convention to evolve? How useful is it if different groups have different sBOM conventions?
There are of course all the other standard problems like distribution of sBOM signatures and tamper evident storage of results.
I don’t know which solution is better but I like both approaches for different reasons. I like the annotation approach because it avoids cluttering the image with new files. I like the sBOM embedded as a file because it allows for flexibility in conventions over time as well as fairly complex builds to happen inside images.
The build and deploy technique I’ve described is surprisingly common in service organizations that are responsible for bespoke services. These are teams that deploy a one-of-a-kind website or web service. The extra work of formally packaging and releasing their software to a Maven repository or other central repository just won’t pay off for them. Nobody else is ever going to deploy this service!
For these teams the only pURL-able location they have is the Source Code Management (SCM) repository itself. In my example a git or gitlab pkg format with some allowed variation for company specifics is enough. The issue comes from a request to track evidence and provenance inside an ephemeral container.
I’ve done some work that’s been peer reviewed and it needs another round of edits before I can publish publicly. Hopefully I can publish this as I think I have at least made a clear problem statement and proposed a solution. I may withdraw my proposed solution and try to publish the problem statement independently.
But, where should I publish? I can always self-publish like this blog post … but the peer-review process is actually quite valuable for sharpening arguments around cutting edge problems.
More on this later…