
dYdX Crypto Exchange NPM User Account Hijacked, Credential Stealing Malware Spread on Their Behalf
Aviad Gershon
Follow
checkmarx-security
Listen
Share
Researchers at “Mend” reported suspicious versions of NPM packages that belong to the dYdX Crypto Exchange. The poisoned packages were stealing credentials from victims’ machines and establishing a foothold for future arbitrary code execution.
The packages were swiftly removed from the NPM registry.
It seems this attack is a result of an account takeover of the NPM user of dYdX employee through which the attacker was able to upload new versions of existing credible packages.
With recent phishing attacks targeting developers and raising the odds of open source contributors being deceived into giving their credentials to malicious actors, we keep our eyes open to discrepancies between package managers to version control platforms (e.g. GitHub, Gitlab, etc.) to detect these kinds of incidents.
Incident details
At 10:37 on September 23rd, the new 1.2.2 version of the NPM packages “@dydxprotocol/perpetual” was uploaded by a known user account of dYdX employee this version included a new preinstall script:
This command downloads and runs the following Bash script:
Let’s quickly walk through these commands.

First, download a python script from a different URL under the same domain, save it to disk and run it.
Then, cleanup — remove the python script from the disk and kill the download process if it is still alive
The last four lines establish a channel for the attacker to run arbitrary commands on the infected machine. This channel is controlled by to files:

Time.js — determine the time the victim’s system will sleep before checking with the C2 server for a new command
Install.js — determine the actions that will be run on the victim’s machine
Since the attacker can change the content of these two files hosted on their C2 server, they can run any code they’d like.
Credentials Stealer
Before establishing the channel for arbitrary code execution, the attacker seems to have a default set of actions they want to perform on the victim’s machine, which basically steals their environment variables and credentials to various services. This is done by running the python script mentioned above.
The attacker looks for these pieces of information by running multiple commands as subprocesses on the machine, gathering the results together, and sending them both as files and as cleartext to the C2.
The exact same attack with the same preinstall script was carried out against the package “@dydxprotocol/solo” by uploading the poisoned version 0.41.1
Looking at the timestamp of the publication of another package, “@dydxprotocol/node-service-base-dev,” it is safe to assume its version 0.2.10 was also poisoned as a part of this incident. This timestamp also corresponds to dYdX’s tweet informing about this attack
Our Way of Detecting Account Takeover Attacks
Realizing that a swift detection mechanism can be the difference between thousands of infected developers’ machines to millions, we observe the open source ecosystem and alert package maintainers and developers of potential user account takeover attacks and/or suspicious package releases.
We continuously monitor all new open source package releases to NPM package manager to look for some of the characteristics of such attacks. (Other package managers will be supported in the future.)
As of this time, it is not possible for a third party to directly detect account takeovers we focus on suspicious and alarming by-products of such incidents. The first thing that comes to mind is looking for new releases with new “on install” scripts in them.
The “scripts” section in the package.json file of an NPM package enables developers (and attackers) to run custom scripts with different triggers. Some of these scripts are configured to run automatically upon the installation of the package, making them a preferred target for malicious actors writing infected packages. In this dYdX incident, for example, the attackers used the “preinstall” script.
Another by-product of attacks publishing malicious packages using a compromised user account on a package manager is a noticeable difference between the package manages and the version control system such as GitHub. This byproduct was also seen in this recent attack. Here is how we detect this.
Package Releases with a Missing Git Tag
It’s quite popular for packages to reference their Git repository, which hosts the package’s source code. Among other features, this Git repository includes a designated section for releases and tags.
When a project works in an orderly fashion, it has a matching Git release/tag for every release in the package manager — either done automatically or manually.
We monitor and identify any divergence from this pattern, e.g., a release in NPM that has no matching release in the VCS. This might imply an account takeover on NPM, and a release of a malicious package outside of the normal release process.
In this incident, taking a look at the GitHub repository of both dydxprotocol/perpetual and dydxprotocol/solo we can clearly see that there were no recent changes and no tags or releases corresponding to the malicious versions on the NPM package manager.
IOC

hxxp://api.circle-cdn[.]com
Poisoned packages