
How I Uncovered An Army of Fake User Accounts
Tal Folkman
Follow
checkmarx-security
80
1
Listen
Share
Mitigating software supply chain attacks is a never-ending game of cat and mouse. We, as defenders, are always trying to find ways to close the gap between the time the attack has started and the moment we are able to stop it or at least defend potential victims.
One way of doing that is to anticipate the attacker's moves and be there when they make them. This is possible when defenders can identify patterns in the attacker’s actions based on their movements and “hunt” for them. Sometimes we are able to do it using data we already possess. In other cases, this data must be acquired first, like in our recent incident.
Intro
Last weekend, we reported on a large-scale attack on the Python ecosystem. Over 400 malicious packages were published by 22+ separate user accounts aimed at stealing crypto wallets from Python users.
As the week progressed, the number of malicious packages published by the attacker continued to climb, surpassing 900 packages from dozens of user accounts. We were all witnessing an ongoing attack with no clue when it would end.
We needed to develop a proactive strategy to stay ahead of the attacker and prevent them from compromising any more victims. While we were already monitoring user accounts that had published malicious packages, we were also concerned about unknown user accounts that were related to the attacker but had not yet released any malicious packages.
To address this issue, I investigated further and found that all user accounts related to the ongoing attack were created on the same day, November 4th. I then created a map of all suspicious user accounts created on the PyPI platform on November 4th and had yet to release any packages (there were many of those!). By monitoring these accounts for any activity, I could catch malicious packages the moment they were released, effectively thwarting the attacker’s efforts.
In this blog, I will share my strategy for identifying and monitoring suspicious user accounts to prevent future attacks.
Get All PyPi User Accounts
My first go-to was PyPi’s APIs, as they show the total number of user accounts on the main page.
PyPi does provide various REST APIs for accessing information about packages hosted on its platform. A couple of examples of such are:
Which returns detailed information about a specified package, including the package’s versions and metadata.
There is also PyPi’s XML-RPC API which provides a range of methods for interacting with its platform, such as searching for packages and retrieving package metadata.
Sadly, none of PyPi’s APIs support getting a list of all user accounts published in a specific timeframe, nor a complete list of all users in general.
sitemap.xml To The Rescue
In SEO, an XML sitemap is used to list a website’s essential pages, making sure search engines like Google can find and crawl them all.
As I suspected, PyPi’s sitemap.xml file lists pages related to all user accounts, packages, and more.
To extract the list of user accounts from this source, I built a simple scraper in Python with the help of a library called beautifulsoup. It goes over each sub-page of the sitemap file and extracts all user account URLs on the PyPi website, effectively providing us with a list of all users on this registry.
Getting More User Data
After acquiring the complete list of over 620k user accounts, I wanted to get more data on each user.
I expanded my scraper to load each user’s page on PyPi using the URL pattern https://pypi.org/user/<username> and extracted interesting data such as:

Display Name
Registration Date
Number of Packages
Profile image URL (more on that in a moment)
Although PyPi displays the day the user account was created, I was able to retrieve the timestamp after inspecting the page’s source code and extracting the timestamp from a datetime attribute.
It is noteworthy that not all user’s profile pages provided a registration date. My hypothesis is that PyPi started to audit this field for users created after 2013, and this is missing for user accounts registered before September 17, 2013.
Checking if a user has a default image
To check if the user account changed the profile image (via Gravatar), I wrote the following code to compare the user’s image with the default gravatar Image. This worked surprisingly well.
Result
The full script I created is available here.
Finding Anomalies
After extracting this information regarding user accounts in PyPi, I began searching for anomalies, and more specifically — user accounts related to the incident from last week, where someone published 900 malicious typosquatting packages using over 30 different user accounts. All were created in advance a couple of months earlier, on Nov 4, 2022.
I produced a list of suspicious PyPi user accounts, which I believe that might be related to the typosquatting attack from last week. Sharing the list below:
Summary
My efforts resulted in a list of ~280 PyPi user accounts suspected of being part of the attacker’s infrastructure created on November 4, 2022, for future usage.
I call on other defenders to monitor this list of suspicious user accounts just in case they are activated and start publishing new malicious packages.
Realizing that this is not a malicious package problem but an attacker problem, shifts the way we think and might help us prevent attacks much closer to their creation.