
KubeCon NA 2022 Day 4: GUAC is SPIFFE
Alex Floyd Marshall
Follow
59
Listen
Share
Very short update for the day about two standout talks.
First, the GUAC talk, which may have biased my opinion by actually giving me guac (best lunch of the conference so far!). This is a very cool project co-sponsored by Google and Kusari aimed at combining all the various data streams for analyzing supply chain security into one “graph” that can be queried for high level visibility.
The project is very much in its infancy, but three things and out:

It already has a fairly mature architecture for dealing with the sheer volume and complexity of data in the ecosystem, providing visualizations at different levels of granularity and a query language (probably stabilizing as GraphQL) so you can drill directly into the data to find what you are looking for.
It dives deep into the dependency tree of projects AND runtime environments (based on the metadata of the images in those environments), pulling data from a ton of sources to give answers that might not have been readily apparent looking at the surface level of what developers and operational teams are directly touching.
It (will) solve real problems for teams in highly regulated environments by giving an “audit trail” of what data was available when a decision was made about go/no-go on an artifact and what follow-on actions have been taken in response to new data.
Second, in another talk the presenter made a provocative statement: “you probably don’t need a service mesh.” Later, in a talk about integrating SPIFFE/SPIRE with cert-manager, I got an answer to how you could make that work (at least, the mTLS part of it). Through the use of a special container storage extension (csi-driver-spiffe), the process of getting, mounting, and renewing certificates via a SPIFFE trust domain can be largely automated. This allows pods to get their certificates painlessly, and, as a result, have the necessary ingredients to complete mTLS with one another without the need of a service mesh.
There are still other things that a service mesh might provide (particularly around “layer 7” policy enforcement), but it’s possible you might be able to do those directly with Envoy without, again, requiring an actual service mesh implementation. I need to explore this more, but it might make for a really interesting way to simplify the architecture of a cluster without compromising the security posture of its internal networking.
That’s all for now!