
Today, over 2.3 million developers rely on Nexus Repository to manage, proxy, and host polyglot components (Maven, npm, RubyGems, PyPI, and nine other formats) and Docker containers. That said, there are still millions of developers unfamiliar with a repository manager and the value they deliver to a DevOps pipeline.
As part of their latest efforts, Sonatype’s Customer Education (CE) team has created a video-based, self-service training series for Nexus Repository Manager 3 covering repository manager basics.
The team set out to develop the content in a componentized manner so that Nexus Repository users (and future users) could invest their time more wisely, selecting only the educational elements that mattered to them most. The content is focused on helping those unfamiliar with repository managers to become more knowledgeable about the basic operational and functional concepts.


Let’s get started: what is a repository manager?
After several rewrites, many SME and peer reviews, and countless edits, the finished product contains an overview, three lessons, and a lab. Each section of the module has an accompanying video that can complement the text or stand on its own.
Below are short summaries of each topic:

Repository Manager Basics Overview - Provides a summary of the module, the intended audience, and a list of prerequisites. An introductory video is also included.

Lesson 1: Functions of a Repository Manager - Goes over what a repository manager is and why you want one. This lesson has two activities and five videos.

Lesson 2: Components and Formats - Explains how components and formats are defined and used in NXRM3. This lesson contains five videos and two activities.

Lesson 3: Repository Types - Summarizes proxy, hosted, and group repositories, and the use for each in an organizational setting. This lesson has seven videos and two activities.

Lab: Repository Planning - Provides a summary of each lesson, an example repo planning use case, and a planning checklist and worksheet. The lab also contains three videos.

Repo Basics Video Library - Gives a collection of all the videos in the module with a short description for each.


Check it out
We invite you to take a look at this incredible new series and share it with your peers. After watching it, we would love to get your feedback on how to improve it or what training courses you would like to see prioritized next.
Not using Nexus Repository?  Download it here for free and join the millions of other developers using it.
A big thank you goes out to our Customer Education team members, Dulani Wallace and Brianne Strozewski for spearheading this effort.



