
We are excited to announce the official release of Sonatype Nexus Repository 3.24. This release focuses on two initiatives from the Sonatype Nexus Repository product teams - enterprise administration capabilities and frictionless ecosystem support.
Continuing on our core principles for delivering the most robust, universal binary repository manager to Sonatype Nexus Repository users, this release completes two important milestones for repository component management and extended format support.

Export for Raw and Maven formats
The number of teams and developers using Sonatype Nexus Repository to manage the flow of binaries and build artifacts through their software supply chain continues to grow. As organizations increase their usage of open source projects, the tougher it becomes to manage the actual content within all of these repositories, especially across a diverse range of different languages and formats. 

Export for Raw and Maven formats (Sonatype Nexus Repository Pro only) enables customers to export Raw and Maven contents from any repository to a target folder. The exports can then be imported into another repository of the same instance, or a totally different instance. This is a great way to migrate content between two or more Sonatype Nexus Repository 3 installations.
There are many reasons that customers need to perform one time moves of content between repositories and instances to help manage their environments.
Large organizations need a way to:

Consolidate multiple Sonatype Nexus Repository 3 instances into a single instance
Move content from a connected environment to a disconnected environment (Air Gap Environment)
Manage large terabytes of data from different repository components
Export for Raw and Maven formats can be used with Import functionality from Sonatype Nexus Repository 3.23 release. Customers will be able to execute the new Import/Export tasks to solve the pain points above for Raw and Maven formats. The final milestone for the Export initiative will be delivered in an upcoming Sonatype Nexus Repository release which will include NuGet, NPM, RubyGems, Yum, Docker, and PyPI formats.
To use Export, configure the task from Settings → Tasks → Create Task → Repository → Export assets

NuGet V3 hosted repositories
NuGet V3 hosted repositories are available in both Sonatype Nexus Repository Pro and our free version Sonatype Nexus Repository OSS. Sonatype Nexus Repository users and .NET developers, you can now use a NuGet V3 hosted repository to upload your own packages as well as third-party packages to Sonatype Nexus Repository.
A NuGet V3 hosted repository allows users to configure, share, and deploy NuGet V3 packages across teams. As .NET developers begin to create hosted repositories for their NuGet V3 packages, they will no longer be dependent on external registries outside of their control. Storing NuGet V3 packages within a Sonatype Nexus Repository hosted repository delivers increased build performance (locally caching your NuGet V3 dependencies), ease of finding packages with extensive search capabilities, sharing of packages for simplified and secure developer collaboration, and the ability to separate your development work environment from needing an internet connection to proxy external NuGet V3 packages.
Nearing the end of the final milestone for full support, NuGet V3 Group repositories will be available right around the corner. We plan to deliver this last stage of full support in an upcoming release! As always, if you have any questions please leave a comment below or connect with our product teams via the Sonatype community. Until then, we will be in the Nexus Design Lab putting the polish on some exciting new features coming later this year. Stay tuned for more...
Additional resources
For further Sonatype Nexus Repository release details and any questions you may have, please refer to the links below:

Nexus Repository 3.24 full release notes
Nexus community, support, and quick-start guides at my.sonatype.com
Consolidate multiple Sonatype Nexus Repository 3 instances into a single instance
Move content from a connected environment to a disconnected environment (Air Gap Environment)
Manage large terabytes of data from different repository components
Nexus Repository 3.24 full release notes
Nexus community, support, and quick-start guides at my.sonatype.com