
As more and more software development teams rely on open source, it is now more important than ever to ensure that only the best open source components make it into a final application. With a 71% increase in open source related breaches within the last five years and over 21,000 new open source releases happening every day, it's impossible for organizations to manage open source usage manually.
Automated open source governance practices must be integrated into every stage of the SDLC, including connecting with the development tools you use every day. Without automation and integrations, it's almost impossible to manage code changes and still develop efficiently with any kind of speed.
We've worked to build integrations into the main tools developers use for writing, reviewing, testing, and deploying code. We make it easy for you to get rich component data with greater efficiency.
Eliminate context wwitching
We push component intelligence into your source control management platforms (SCM) and integrated development environments (IDE) so that you can develop applications securely without having to leave your favorite tools. Sonatype Lifecycle integrates into GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket (both Server and Cloud), adding automation and precise component intelligence into your pull requests and daily workflows.
Sonatype Lifecycle also integrates into Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Microsoft Visual Studio, PyCharm, and VS Code. No matter your preferred tool for writing code, we've got you covered.
With Atlassian's improved Bitbucket pull request experience and VS Code integration, you can also bring information from Jira Software right into the same SCM and IDE. Together, we enable developers to work in Bitbucket and/or VS Code (or whatever SCM/IDE combo you choose) without any context switching or searching for information elsewhere.
Think how fast your team could work with insights into component health and open source risk, Jira tickets and tasks, and detailed pull request information, right alongside their code?
We continue to work hard so that enterprise customers who rely on both Atlassian and Sonatype can continue to innovate securely and at speed. Learn more about all of our integrations with Atlassian throughout the SDLC to help you deliver higher quality applications faster.