
Today marks the much-anticipated release of the 2022 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing1 (AST), and we’re thrilled to announce that Checkmarx has been named a Leader for the 5th consecutive year based on our Ability to Execute and Completeness of Vision.
We believe, Checkmarx continues to maintain its strong position in the AST market and we’re very proud of that.  More and more organizations are embedding AST throughout their modern application development and cloud-native initiatives, driving rapid AST market growth that trends alongside the proliferation of software amidst worldwide digital transformation.
We believe that the observations made by Gartner support the need for enterprises to not only implement a strong foundation of testing proprietary code and open source libraries via SAST and SCA scans, but to also account for emerging cloud-native technologies including APIs, containers, microservices, and Infrastructure as Code (IaC). Beyond that, evolving risks in the open source supply chain continue to increase as more open source becomes part of today’s codebases.
To address the growing need of AST solutions that fit well into modern application development, we released the Checkmarx AST Platform™ late last year. And just last month, we added Checkmarx Supply Chain Security to our portfolio of solutions. Built for the cloud development generation, our AST Platform delivers essential application security testing services from a unified, cloud-based platform. In one scan, it analyzes source code, open source dependencies, supply chain risks, and IaC templates, correlates and verifies the results, and augments them with expert remediation advice. Best of all, these services integrate right into your existing software development tools and processes.
Application security testing solutions that address the broadening risk landscape are no longer a ‘nice to have,’ but rather a ‘must have,’ and today, it’s imperative to leverage innovative solutions that address all code types and the associated risks within modern applications. As a result,  Checkmarx is laser-focused on helping our customers navigate software complexity and expand their test coverage to address the way applications are being developed and deployed, so they can improve the security and quality of their software without slowing down development. With 16+ years of innovation in AST, we remain committed and intensely passionate about delivering powerful solutions to organizations that thrive on the software they develop.
As we celebrate being named a Leader in the 2022 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing, we’d like to thank our incredible customers, partners, and employees who have been, and will continue to be, the cornerstone of our success.
Read the Full Report
Download a complimentary copy of the 2022 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing here.
To learn more about the Checkmarx AST Platform and our suite of Checkmarx AST solutions, visit: www.checkmarx.com
1Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing, Dale Gardner, Mark Horvath, and Dionisio Zumerle, 18 April 2022.
Gartner Disclaimer:
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
Gartner and Magic Quadrant are registered trademarks of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved.