
For the past few weeks and the foreseeable future, COVID-19 has forced organizations around the world to adopt work from home models. This can be a difficult transition, impacting productivity, workflows, and overall cybersecurity. And, with software development teams now “developing from home,” and in some cases being asked to meet even more aggressive delivery timelines, organizations may need to look at new ways to ensure the security of the software they develop.

Checkmarx is here to help.

Starting today, we are offering 45 days of free access to our secure coding solution – Codebashing. Codebashing empowers security teams to provide developers with the skills and tools they require to write secure code, wherever they are.
How it Works
With the full Codebashing offering, AppSec managers are able to cultivate a culture of software security that empowers developers to think and act securely in their day-to-day work. Organizations can engage their remote development teams to participate in:

Gamiﬁed Training – Developers take online, gamified training courses while learning and coding from home.
Team Challenges – Add a spirit of competition by running challenges that test developers’ AppSec knowledge. Developers will go head-to-head with one another to move up the leaderboard.
Assessments – With everyone working from home, it’s the perfect time to understand where each developer stands when it comes to their AppSec skills.
To get started, sign up between now and May 31, 2020, and view our FAQ below for more information. Developers can also visit free.codebashing.com to get a quick start on some of the lessons Codebashing offers, free of charge and with no commitment – play now!

Supporting our customers, partners, and the broader AppSec community remains a top priority, and we hope these proactive steps will help organizations continue to deliver secure software throughout these difficult times.

*Terms and conditions apply.
Additional Resources

Learn more about Checkmarx Codebashing here.
Follow our social channels (LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook) for more COVID-19, Codebashing, and AppSec related updates.
Learn more about how Checkmarx is ensuring business continuity for our customers throughout COVID-19.
FAQ
❯ What is Codebashing?
❯ Who is Codebashing for?
❯ Who is eligible for this offer?
❯ How long is this offer valid for?
❯ How do I get started?
❯ What are the terms and conditions?

One offer per company
Must have at least 10 developers participate
No more than 100 developer seats per company
Last sign up date is May 31, 2020
Not open to existing Codebashing customers