
We are proud to announce that we received a Customers’ Choice distinction in the November 2023 Peer Insights “Voice of the Customer”: Application Security Testing on Gartner® Peer Insights™. This distinction is a recognition of vendors in this market, based on feedback and rating from 142 verified end users of our product as of  August, 2023.
We are even more proud that we have received this distinction for the past five years – making us the only AST provider to be named a Customers’ Choice every year since the inception of the Peer Insights report.
Hear in the “Voice of the Customer” what our reviewers had to say:
“This product help our engineering team to find several security issues in our software products, and at the same time allow us to do this in a quick and easy way because it was able to integrate with our CI/CD process. – Engineering, retail industry
This distinction is a particularly big deal for everyone at Checkmarx because it comes from customers — who are the reason we do what we do. The Gartner Peer Insights Customers’ Choice recognizes vendors in this market based on reviews from verified end users. The Customers’ Choice distinction considers both the number of reviews and the overall user ratings. Gartner maintains rigorous criteria to ensure fair evaluation and recognize vendors with a high customer satisfaction rate.
Read more reviews for Checkmarx here
READY TO LEARN MORE?
Download a complimentary copy of the Voice of the Customer for Application Security Testing or visit us online for additional information on Checkmarx One.
To all our customers who submitted reviews, thank you! You’re the reason we are here, and your feedback helps us improve our products to fit your needs.
If you have a Checkmarx story to share, we encourage you to join the Gartner Peer Insights crowd and weigh in.

Gartner, Voice of the Customer for Application Security Testing, Peer Contributors, 28 November 2023.
GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark, and PEER INSIGHTS is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and are used herein with permission. All rights reserved.
Gartner® Peer InsightsTM content consists of the opinions of individual end users based on their own experiences, and should not be construed as statements of fact, nor do they represent the views of Gartner or its affiliates. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in this content nor makes any warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this content, about its accuracy or completeness, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.