
The “Skeleton Squad” — Tracing the Origins and Scope of 5000+ Malicious Packages on Pypi
Yehuda Gelb
Follow
Checkmarx Zero
54
Listen
Share
A group with the ominous name “EsqueleSquad”, which translates to “Skeletons Squad” in Catalan, published over 5000 malicious packages up until last weekend. This group is linked to several other packages uploaded in early January, all dropping malicious executables using different methods.
Earlier findings
On February 23rd, a threat actor started to flood the Pypi ecosystem with thousands of malicious packages through a user account named “esquelesquad”. These packages contained harmful code within their ”setup.py”, allowing the malware to execute automatically upon download, exposing the victims to spyware and information-stealing malware.
The malware consisted of a Base64-encoded PowerShell command that would initiate the download of a Windows remote executable from a Dropbox link. The first executable was identified as a stage 1 dropper, which would trigger a second stage that created multiple malware binaries on the user’s computer.
The Python security team acted quickly and removed the malicious packages as soon as they were reported. However, the threat actor continued to abuse the user account to spread additional packages.
According to Phylum’s research, “esquelesquad” had uploaded around 1,250 packages at the time of their publication. Later, on February 26th, Sonatype’s research updated that number to around 3,000.
New Malicious Packages
Since then, the Checkmarx Supply Chain Security team has identified the user continuously uploading packages, totaling over 5,000 packages published by that same user. The account stopped publishing new packages on the 27th, but it is still possible that they will resume uploading additional ones at any point in the future.
Uncovering Ties
Looks like this attacker refers to itself as a squad, the “EsqueleSquad”
Our investigation revealed the existence of an experimental user account associated with the squad, named T4hg, which was active in early January of this year. This account published four packages exhibiting different earlier versions of the dropper’s code that were found in the packages published by the EsqueleSquad more than a month later. All these packages have since been removed from PyPI.
The attackers also used a distinctive description, in some of the packages published by T4hg, which translated to the poetic line, “They will all die in the hands of EsqueleSquad.” (originally in Spanish)
Our investigation further revealed that the T4hg user account is also connected to a GitHub username with the same name. This account includes two repositories, one of which was only recently created. The repository contains two binaries, one of which was identified by Virus Total as malicious.
Dealing with rogue user accounts
This raises the question of whether deleting the user account spreading the malicious packages would be a better solution than simply deleting the packages. While deleting the packages is a good first step, it may not be enough to stop the threat actor behind the account. Deleting the user account, on the other hand, would make it more difficult for the threat actor to continue their activities.
It is important to note that deleting a user account should not be done lightly. This is because legitimate users who may have been using the account for non-malicious purposes could be impacted. For example, a legitimate user account that had fallen victim to an attacker who spread malicious packages through that account for a short period. Additionally, deleting a user account may not be feasible in all cases, as the threat actor could simply create a new account and continue their activities under a different name.
This attack on PyPI highlights the fact that we are not only dealing with a package problem but an adversary problem, underscoring the need for effective strategies to address the evolving threats to software ecosystems.”
List of Packages
The full dataset can be downloaded from GitHub: https://gist.github.com/masteryoda101/5deb5aada4fe5d10a14ed01907d0c698