
August in Software Supply Chain Security
Yehuda Gelb
Follow
Checkmarx Zero
Listen
Share
This past month was insane, with attack after attack targeting the open-source software ecosystem.
- Phishing campaigns.
- Large-scale campaign targeting GitHub repositories
- Attacks dropping ransomware and cryptominers.
- Multi-stage attacks targeting Windows and Linux systems.
- Typosquatting and Starjacking campaigns.
- Thousands of malicious packages.
- And an additional method for attackers to exploit the popular PyPi ecosystem.
First Known Phishing Attack Against PyPI Users
The first-ever phishing campaign, carried out by the threat actor dubbed “JuiceLedger”, was detected targeting Python contributors with some success.
At least two packages have fallen victim to the phishing campaign and were poisoned with malicious payloads after the account of the package owner had been compromised. The packages were poisoned with a malicious payload that downloaded and executed a file from a URL.
The campaign included two separate attack vectors on the open source ecosystem, which were linked to a shared malicious domain.
1. Over a hundred Typosquatting packages
2. Phishing campaign through emails to python contributors.
We reported about this phase of the attack here.
SentinelLABS, in collaboration with Checkmarx, uncovered the identity of the threat actor and described in the following report the full details of this campaign along with the activity and development of the threat actor. (report)
Thousands of fake GitHub projects were infected with malware using fake commits.
A tweet by Stephen Lacy exposed a large-scale campaign targeting random GitHub repositories with project clones containing credential-stealing malware and remote shell execution on top of the original code. This incident, originally thought to have a substantial impact on the ecosystem, turned out to be much less dramatic.
Soon afterward, a new, anonymous Twitter account replied to Lacy’s thread, taking credit for the cloned repos, declaring that they were a security researcher in pursuit of a bug bounty and that a report from them was forthcoming. There has been no follow-up from the alleged security researcher since. (report)
Threat Actor Publishes 1000+ Malicious PyPi and npm Packages — New Findings in a Recently Reported Campaign.
A total of over a thousand malicious npm and PyPi packages were detected dropping cryptominers and simple implementation of ransomware functionality.
Both python and npm packages used the same address (80.78.25[.]140:8000/.cmc), to download the cryptomining scripts on the victim’s machines. Once an attack was successful, it was automatically reported back to the attacker along with the compromised target’s IP address. (report)
Multi-stage Attack with Hidden Payload Targeting Windows Users Caught Stealing Credentials
An attacker attempted to infect victims with malware that steals authorization tokens, passwords, and credit cards used for the popular messaging app — Discord, as well as stealing passwords, history, and cookies from the Google Chrome browser.
The attacker conducted this attack by publishing a PyPi package called “mecord” which mimicked the legitimate Python package discord.py-self.
The attacker cloned the original package code and, on top of it, placed crafted malicious code at the bottom of the package’s “__init__.py” file (this file’s code is being executed upon import. In other words — when using the package).
The malicious code was placed in the package as a hidden payload with delayed execution to attempt to remain under the radar. In addition, the code included anti-VM and anti-debug evasive mechanisms
This payload seems to be a self-hosted copy of the open-source malware Hazard-Token-Grabber-V2 version 1.8.7 embedded with the attacker’s Discord Webhook which is used as an exfiltration endpoint for the stolen data.
This malware checks if the operating system is Windows, and, if so attempts to steal data which is then sent to the attacker as a Discord message to his selected channel.
Typosquatting Campaign Targeting Python’s Top Packages, Dropping GitHub Hosted Malware with DGA Capabilities.
A large-scale attack was detected on the Python ecosystem using multi-stage persistent malware.
A dozen malicious Typosquatting packages were distributed under the names of popular projects with slight variation. All dozen targeted packages had a combined monthly download rate of over 500 million. All malicious packages contained code executed upon installation, which downloads and executes a windows executable hosted on GitHub under a malicious user accounts’ repository.
GitHub was intentionally used to host the malware, which was grabbed dynamically during the malicious packages installation to prevent raising red flags as GitHub is a legitimate service many open source software use by design during installation.
This was also the first time malware was seen using DGA and UGA (Domain and User Generation Algorithms) in the software supply chain ecosystem.
This malware also contained code to prevent it from being executed in sandbox environments. (report)
Malicious PyPi User Strikes Again with Typosquatting, StarJacking and Unpacks Tailor-made Malware written in C#
A known malicious contributor published two Python packages trying to mimic popular ones, which have over nine million monthly downloads combined, to lure developers into downloading them and infect their machines with malware which includes multiple evasion and obfuscation techniques, C2 communication, and eventually the drop of a malicious payload recognized as a Cobalt Strike beacon.
This account was not disabled after the first attack, allowing the attacker to continue publishing malicious code while improving their techniques. (report)
Automatic Execution of Code Upon Package Download on Python Package Manager
A worrying feature in PyPi that has existed since 2014 but has not been addressed to this day allows code to automatically run when developers are merely downloading a package as opposed to installing it. This currently affects close to a third of all packages on PyPi. This feature is alarming since many of the malicious packages we find in the wild use this feature of code execution upon download or installation to achieve higher infection rates. (report)