
Popular GitHub Project Adds Malicious Code To Prevent Thefts
Jossef Harush Kadouri
Follow
Checkmarx Zero
1
Listen
Share
On January 10th, our friends at Mend reported a malicious npm package that deletes files on the victim’s machine in case there was an unauthorized usage of the author’s code.
During our investigation of this incident, we were able to uncover additional details, including more malicious packages.
Background
As reported by Mend, the NPM user account jayxuz published the package @jayxuz/rely , including malicious code deleting the victim’s project files.
Our team found additional malicious packages published by jayxuz, and we found it is related to the GitHub user account chuzhixin which is the owner of the highly popular chuzhixin/vue-admin-better project.
The chuzhixin/vue-admin-better GitHub project, starred by over 13k users, offers an admin panel project template built on top of the popular frontend framework vuejs with multiple sub-components and eye-candy widgets.
Paid Version
In addition to the open source version on GitHub, the makers of this successful project offer a paid version of the admin panel template with more features. This version is sold on the dedicated website https://vue-admin-beautiful.com/.
vue3-admin-icons malicious code
Analyzing the npm package @jayxuz/vue3-admin-icons revealed hidden code intended to disrupt web applications using a stolen version of the template hosted outside of the allow-list of sites. One of the allowed websites is https://vue-admin-beautiful.com/
Public Statement
The GitHub user account chuzhixin posted a public statement with an explanation regarding why he posted those malicious packages.
BTW it was originally written in Chinese, and we used Google Translate. The translation might be slightly inaccurate.
They say it was done because “one of our paid users open sourced our paid products to github a few years ago”. They continue explaining how it damaged their profits and explained that they just want to “retaliate against those who sold it at a low price”
Conclusion
We believed that chuzhixin had no intention of harming random developers, but rather, their aim was to deter thieves from using their paid versions of their open website templates.
Working together to keep the ecosystem safe from attackers.
Package Names
jayxuz
@jayxuz/rely
jayxuz
@jayxuz/vue3-admin-icons