
February 2023 in Software Supply Chain Security
Yehuda Gelb
Follow
Checkmarx Zero
10
Listen
Share
In February, the open-source community was hit with multiple supply chain attacks. These included multiple rounds of attacks on the PyPi and NPM ecosystem. In addition, we have witnessed a trend that has continued to grow (open source package as spam) and multiple new threat actors entering this field. In addition, we saw a security incident involving the hijacking of an abandoned subdomain of CocoaPods, highlighting the potential security risks of abandoned subdomains. We also shared this month how we can be more proactive and effective in detecting and responding to malware threats.
So let’s dive into some of the most significant events of February.
900+ Malicious Python Packages Manipulating Victim’s Clipboard to Steal Crypto
Persistent threat actor targets popular packages on the PyPi ecosystem once again with the aim of taking over the victim’s clipboard and replacing copied crypto wallet addresses with their own. (report)
Threat Actor Executes Multiple Rounds of Attack on PyPI Using Hidden Infrastructure
A planned attack orchestrated by a persistent threat actor was brought to light, revealing a vast infrastructure of hundreds of dummy user accounts in the Pypi ecosystem. These accounts were identified as suspicious and were intended for the attackers’ malicious purposes in the future. A proactive strategy has been developed to tackle the attacker’s infrastructure and prevent future attacks. (report)
How 17K NPM Packages Were Used to Spread Phishing Links
A surge of thousands of SPAM packages were uploaded to the NPM open-source ecosystem from multiple user accounts within hours. These packages were generated using automated processes, with similar descriptions and auto-generated names. But the attackers made a careless mistake by including the very same automation code used to generate and advertise the packages, which led to the unmasking of their nefarious tactics. (report)
PyPi Targeted by Over 5000 Malicious Packages Published by the EsqueleSquad Threat Actor
A threat actor, associating themselves to the “squad” flooded the python ecosystem, using the same user account, with over 5,000 malicious packages containing a dropper malware that downloaded a second-stage payload from a Dropbox link. This is after using an experimental user account associated with the attacker, a month earlier, which published four packages exhibiting earlier versions of the dropper’s code. (report)
CocoaPods Subdomain Hijacked
An abandoned subdomain of CocoaPods was hijacked and used by a threat actor to host a fishy casino website. This incident brings to light the potential security risks associated with abandoned subdomains, as attackers can host malicious content that looks legitimate, deceiving users and organizations and exposing sensitive information. (report)
Hunting for supply Chain Attacks (WASP) using Yara Rules
We shared this month how we can monitor open-source packages for known malware structures to be more proactive and effective in detecting and responding to malware threats. (report)