

The JsonWebToken library has a flaw that could have lead to remote code execution (RCE). While exploitability is now questionable — it had the potential to be a big problem because the npm library is used all over the place.
Yes, here’s another example of the risks in uncontrolled software supply chains. This npm library is relied upon by countless apps and services — perhaps yours.
The bug’s been fixed, after the vulnerability was disclosed responsibly. In this week’s Secure Software Blogwatch, we worry for people who don’t update.
Your humble blogwatcher curated these bloggy bits for your entertainment. Not to mention: MCU Who.
JWT type confusion
What’s the craic? Bill Toulas reports — “Auth0 fixes RCE flaw in JsonWebToken library used by 22,000 projects”:
And swim away from the Nathan Eddy currents — “JsonWebToken Security Bug Opens Servers to RCE ”:
Horse’s mouth? Artur Oleyarsh — “Disclosing a New Vulnerability in JWT Secret Poisoning”:
Not worried because you don’t use that library? Here’s HayoS:
Déjà vu? tetha categorizes and classifies:
How so? julienwoll advises thuswise:
Wait. Pause. How can that possibly happen? u/castleinthesky86 scoffs in a slightly sweary style:
But reality’s a bit more nuanced. As kkeane explains:
JWT? JSON? ELI45, please. Paul Ducklin explains it to your CTO:
Meanwhile, u/OuiOuiKiwi neatly sums up the insecure supply chain issue:
And Finally:
If Marvel made a Doctor Who movie

Hat tip: Ambegris
Previously in And finally
Editor's note: This story was updated to reflect that the severity of the flaw has changed. This post was based on expert commentary following the news at the time of publication.
You have been reading Secure Software Blogwatch by Richi Jennings. Richi curates the best bloggy bits, finest forums, and weirdest websites … so you don’t have to. Hate mail may be directed to @RiCHi or ssbw@richi.uk. Ask your doctor before reading. Your mileage may vary. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Do not stare into laser with remaining eye. E&OE. 30.
Image sauce: JJ Ying (via Unsplash; leveled and cropped)