
What did the U.S. Justice Department know about the SolarWinds fiasco? How early did it find out? And who did it tell?
The answers to these questions are in flux, as an investigative reporter digs into the story, some 26 months after it went public. She says the DOJ knew much earlier than we first thought, but the news didn’t reach the FBI nor the NSA for half a year.
It’s complicated. But Hanlon’s razor probably applies. In this week’s Secure Software Blogwatch, we look at the story from all sides.
Your humble blogwatcher curated these bloggy bits for your entertainment. Not to mention: AI TV spot.
[ See Webinar: Lessons Learned from the SolarWinds Attack | Get report: The State of Software Supply Chain Security 2022-23 ]
DOJ on down-low for 6 months
What’s the craic? Steve Prentice summarizes in his podcast — “DOJ detected the SolarWinds hack 6 months earlier than first disclosed”:
Sauce? Kim Zetter broke the story — “Noticed Russian hackers in its network but did not realize the significance”:
Ouch. Bruce Schneier offers a sympathetic reading — “SolarWinds Detected Six Months Earlier”:
As opposed to rst, who alleges an allegation:
Never ascribe to malice that which is adequately explained by incompetence. gweihir shaves with a modded Hanlon: [You’re fired—Ed.]
Did we learn nothing from 9/11? u/Hrmbee is deeply concerned at the silos:
But what about SolarWinds’ own failures? iAPX whispers, conspiratorially:
Have we been given the whole story yet? boomboomsubban notes this entertaining angle:
Still, that time around the holidays must have been “fun” for feds. u/Pyro1934 describes it from the inside:
Meanwhile, myowntrueself “knows” the real reason for the delay:
And Finally:
Our new diffusion overlords having another hallucination

Hat tip: noddin0ff
Previously in And finally
You have been reading Secure Software Blogwatch by Richi Jennings. Richi curates the best bloggy bits, finest forums, and weirdest websites … so you don’t have to. Hate mail may be directed to @RiCHi or ssbw@richi.uk. Ask your doctor before reading. Your mileage may vary. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Do not stare into laser with remaining eye. E&OE. 30.
Image sauce: Jelleke Vanooteghem (Unsplash license) (edited)