

Passkeys, child of FIDO and W3C’s WebAuthn, looks almost ready for prime time. Apple and Google are supporting it — and being interoperable. Password managers are also getting on board.
2FA/MFA is great in theory, but OTP codes can be intercepted and websites are easily spoofed. Passkeys neatly automates a challenge/response exchange, with the secret being protected by biometrics.
Isn’t it time your dev team got on board, too? In this week’s Secure Software Blogwatch, we get below the surface blather.
Your humble blogwatcher curated these bloggy bits for your entertainment. Not to mention: Silver Birches.
Momentum building
What’s the craic? Jeffrey Schwartz reports — “Passkeys See Fresh Momentum With New Pilot Programs ”:
New users are happy. Chris Smith’s reaction is typical — “I’ll never have to remember my Apple ID password again”:
If Passkeys == WebAuthn, why the new name? Arnaud Dagnelies explains — “WebAuthn vs. Passkeys”:
Do you smell lock-in? Stavros Korokithakis is “Clearing up some misconceptions”:
Want more? Vincenzo Iozzo and Kasper Mroz have more — “Threat modeling and implementation considerations”:
Forward-thinking DevOps shops are doing it already. Ben Lee-Cohen and Jeff Spencer are happy:
But are Apple and Google making their own walled gardens? No, says WorldMaker:
Let’s do this. nbvb agrees:
But how can it be better than a complex, memorized password? AnniesBoobs says that’s not the point:
And the password managers are getting on board. danShumway is eager to see one in particular:
Meanwhile, why would they do that? Niclas Rupertseder lays it all out:
And Finally:
21st century Bob Ross

Hat tip: Invisible Wizard
Previously in And finally
You have been reading Secure Software Blogwatch by Richi Jennings. Richi curates the best bloggy bits, finest forums, and weirdest websites … so you don’t have to. Hate mail may be directed to @RiCHi or ssbw@richi.uk. Ask your doctor before reading. Your mileage may vary. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Do not stare into laser with remaining eye. E&OE. 30.
Image sauce: Silas Köhler (via Unsplash; leveled and cropped)