
First Known Phishing Attack Against PyPi Users
Aviad Gershon
Follow
checkmarx-security
Listen
Share
A few hours ago, PyPi disclose information on the first seen phishing attack aimed at a Python contributor.
Right now, we are aware of hundreds of malicious packages that were related to this attack based on the known indicator.
During our investigation, we found new indicators related to this attack.
we will continue to update as we find more information.
Details
This incident includes two attack vectors:
Phishing against PyPi contributors
Earlier today, the Twitter user AdamChainz reported that he received a phishing email asking him to validate his PyPi credential leading him to a fake PyPi login page in an attempt to steal his PyPi credentials.
As it seems, these phishing attempts succeeded at least twice as two existing, previously legitimate, python packages were poisoned with malicious payloads. This was probably a result of an account takeover of the owners of the packages after their credentials to PyPi were stolen.
The infected packages, version 0.1.6 of “exotel” (over 480,000 total downloads) and versions 2.0.2 and 4.0.2 of “spam” (over 200,000 total downloads) were taken down by now.
Not long after, PyPi’s official Twitter account reported that this phishing attack was related to a broader incident that included several hundred malicious python packages. These malicious packages were removed from the registry at that point.

Malicious typosquatting python package
The phishing attempt and the malicious packages are linked by the domain linkedopports[.]com, which appears in the malicious package code and also functions as the location to which the phishing site tries to send the stolen credentials.
Looking into this incident, and specifically into the malicious packages, we notice the following details.
The python-release[.]com domain
The malicious packages are trying to download and execute a file from the URL hxxps://python-release[.]com/python-install.scr
At the time of writing, VirusTotal exhibits a low detection rate of this file 3/67
This malware is untypically large, ~63MB, (possibly in an attempt to evade AV detection) and has a valid signature (signed on August 23rd, 2022).
The website hosted on hxxps://python-release[.]com looks like an attempt to imitate a legitimate source for python installation files
The ledgdown[.]com domain
During our investigation, we found another unreported domain related to this attacker's infrastructure.
Registered at the same timeframe, under the same IP as hxxps://python-release[.]com is the domain “ledgdown[.]com”. This domain is hosting a website trying to imitate the legitimate website of the crypto assets app “ledger live.”
Under this domain is the URL hxxps://ledgdown[.]com/LedgerSetup.zip.
This large zip file (~170MB) includes 3 files, one of them is “LedgerSetup.scr” (24/68 detection rate on VT) which in itself is large (~63MB) and, from the looks of it, bears a striking resemblance to the “python-install.scr” file.
Conclusion
This is another step in the attacks against open source packages and open source contributors.
We recommend checking your network traffic against the IOCs listed below and as always, encouraging contributors to use 2FA.
We will continue to update as more information is revealed.
Working together to keep the ecosystem safe
IOCs

hxxps://python-release[.]com
hxxps://python-release[.]com/python-install.scr
hxxps://ledgdown[.]com
hxxps://ledgdown[.]com/LedgerSetup.zip
hxxps://linkedopports[.]com
hxxps://linkedopports[.]com/pyp/resp.php?live=Installation
python-install.scr — 60434af3ebe924efabc96558e6c8d8176bf4eb06dd6cc47b4c491da9964be874
LedgerSetup.scr — 8e97c6883e7af5cc1f88ac03197d62298906ac4a35a789d94cc9fde45ee7ea13
Malicous Packages list

	firstbasicpyapp	firstbasicpyapp
	coingecko-apis	firstbasicpyapp
	coinmarketcaps	firstbasicpyapp
	igtool	firstbasicpyapp
	monkeytypes	firstbasicpyapp
	multiporn	firstbasicpyapp
	opencb-python	firstbasicpyapp
	opencvv-python	firstbasicpyapp
	pyteseract	firstbasicpyapp
	seleniun	firstbasicpyapp
	manganeko	elevatepyapp
	bcrypto	elevatepyapp
	deep-translate	elevatepyapp
	discord.pt	elevatepyapp
	discord.pu	elevatepyapp
	instabots	elevatepyapp
	psycogp2	elevatepyapp
	pycryptdome	elevatepyapp
	pycryptodomes	elevatepyapp
	pypttt	elevatepyapp
	pytttsx3	elevatepyapp
	pywin31	elevatepyapp
	pywin33	elevatepyapp
	redist	elevatepyapp
	tiktok-bots	elevatepyapp
	yandex-map	elevatepyapp
	arcalife	firstbasicpyapp
	linkedin-scrape	firstbasicpyapp
	memory-profile	firstbasicpyapp
	osrs-hiscore	firstbasicpyapp
	pymongosinspired13	firstbasicpyapp
	selenuim	firstbasicpyapp
	ymongo	firstbasicpyapp
	1337c	praisepyapp
	1337z	praisepyapp
	andex-maps	praisepyapp
	deep-translation	praisepyapp
	eautifulsoup4	praisepyapp
	emoji-country-flags	praisepyapp
	emoki	praisepyapp
	etuptools	praisepyapp
	keybaord	praisepyapp
	pencv-python	praisepyapp
	proxyscrope	praisepyapp
	pydobc	praisepyapp
	speechrecongition	praisepyapp
	xlibrary	praisepyapp
	yautogui	praisepyapp
	yptt	praisepyapp
	etuptool	pypiappz
	deeepl	pypiappz
	discordhook	pypiappz
	eepl	pypiappz
	elenium	pypiappz
	igtoolz	pypiappz
	proxycrape	pypiappz
	proxyrape	pypiappz
	statmodel	pypiappz
	statmodels	pypiappz
	statsmodel	pypiappz
	yaudio	pypiappz
	yinance	pypiappz
	yinstaller	pypiappz
	ywin32	pypiappz
	asn2crypto	pypzz
	bitcoinliv	pypzz
	crypto-data-fetch	pypzz
	crypto-get-price	pypzz
	crypto-open	pypzz
	crypto-os	pypzz
	cryptobalance	pypzz
	django-metamaks-auth	pypzz
	django-metamask-aut	pypzz
	django-web2-auth	pypzz
	django-web3-aut	pypzz
	django-web4-auth	pypzz
	hameni	pypzz
	historic-crypt	pypzz
	jango-metamask-auth	pypzz
	jango-web3-auth	pypzz
	pyvrypto	pypzz
	pyxrypto	pypzz
	ycrypto	pypzz
	ycryptodome	pypzz
	ccsv	pypzz1
	contextliv	pypzz1
	cryptographyy	pypzz1
	csvv	pypzz1
	cvs	pypzz1
	flak7	pypzz1
	flak8	pypzz1
	flake7	pypzz1
	fuzywuzy	pypzz1
	fuzywuzzy	pypzz1
	fuzzywuzy	pypzz1
	fuzzzywuzzy	pypzz1
	hreading	pypzz1
	laysound	pypzz1
	playsoun	pypzz1
	pyinstaler	pypzz1
	rgparse	pypzz1
	threadin	pypzz1
	threeding	pypzz1
	uzzywuzzy	pypzz1
	we3	pypzz1
	wec3	pypzz1
	weg3	pypzz1
	wen3	pypzz1
