
Supply chain attacks using malicious NPM Packages compromised the details of thousands of web users
Aviad Gershon
Follow
checkmarx-security
Listen
Share
In this incident, first published by ReversingLabs, dozens of NPM packages were found using variations of popular package names to deceive developers into including them in their applications. An application including one of these packages as a dependency will send users’ form data to attacker-controlled domains.
This attack was meticulously crafted and yielded impressive results with one of the packages reaching a total of 17,000 downloads. Since the targets of these attacks are end-users rather than developers, this number of downloads can suggest a much higher number of infections.
Details
The packages that were found share a similar modus operandi, their obfuscated code includes a feature that looks for form components on the website or application and sends the data filled in it to one of the attacker’s domains.
As it seems, these attacks were all carried out by the same actor with a preparation level surpassing what we commonly see in software supply chain attacks, marking another milestone in the field.
For example, the malicious package icon-package is trying to fool developers into using it instead of the legitimate popular ionicons, offering over 1300 icons for websites and application developers.
The user publishing this malicious package is ionic-io and the form data it exfiltrates is sent to hxxps://ionicio[.]com which is quite similar to the legitimate website of the package ionic.io and could be easily overlooked and passed as reliable to a developer looking into it. This attacker didn't stop there and also uploaded a similar-looking website on the malicious address to make it all seem reliable and innocent.
Other than this example, the attacker also targeted several other UI packages such as umbrellajs, swiper, and sidr, all with the same functionality of sending form data from end-users.
Conclusion
Typosquatting attacks are an efficient way to spread malicious packages to unsuspecting developers and in some cases, such as the one described in this blog, to their end-users.
The focus on end-users rather than developers separates this attack from most of what we see in recent times and makes it much more worrisome. in addition, the level of preparation for these attacks suggests it was done by a mature attacker that certainly possesses the skills to attack again and cause severe damage.
Checkmarx customers are protected from this threat and our research team is investigating further and will update should any new finding will come up.
Packages

	ionic-icon	fontsawesome
	ionicio	fontsawesome
	con-package	ionic-io
	ajax-libs	ionic-io
	umbrellaks	ionic-io
	ajax-library	ionic-io
	iconion-package	arpanrizki
	package-sidr	arpanrizki
	kbrstore	arpanrizki
	icons-package	arpanrizki
	subek	arpanrizki
	package-show	arpanrizki
	package-icon	arpanrizki
	icons-packages	kbrstore
	ionicon-package	kbrstore
	icons-pack	kbrstore
	pack-icons	kbrstore
	ionicons-pack	kbrstore
	package-ionicons	aselole
	package-ionicon	aselole
	base64-javascript	aselole
	ionicons-js	aselole
	ionicons-json	aselole
	footericon	footericon
	roar-01	ajax-libz
	roar-02	ajax-libz
	wkwk100	ajax-libz
	swiper-bundie	ajax-libz
	ajax-libz	ajax-libz
	swiper-bundle	ajax-libz
	atez	ajax-libz

IOC’s

graph-googleapis[.]com
ionicio[.]com
curls.safhosting[.]xyz
arpanrizki.my[.]id
dnster.my[.]id
okep.renznesia[.]xyz
ryucha.my[.]id
panelllgege.001www[.]com
nge.scrp.my[.]id
apiii-xyz.yogax.my[.]id
panel.archodex[.]xyz
panel.curlz[.]online