
PyTorch, a Leading ML Framework, Was Poisoned with Malicious Dependency
Tzachi(Zack) Zorn
Follow
checkmarx-security
58
Listen
Share
For a period of five days, the nightly version of PyTorch, a popular machine-learning framework, was compromised by a supply chain attack. The infected version contained a malicious dependency that used the “dependency confusion” technique to target PyTorch Linux users with a C++ malware specifically designed for Linux systems. This malware collected system information, accessed sensitive files, and sent the information and file contents to a specified domain through encrypted DNS queries. It is possible that thousands of machines were affected by this attack.

About PyTorch
PyTorch is a popular open-source machine learning library for Python, with a total of ~180 million downloads. It provides a wide range of tools for training and deploying machine learning models and is particularly well-suited for deep learning.
PyPi Package “torchtriton”
The “torchtriton” package is an internal dependency and has been part of PyTorch experimental feature since October 2022.
On 26 December 2022, “torchtriton” package version 2.0.0 was published to the PyPi registry. In an effort to make the package look more reliable, the attacker also used the StarJacking technique linking the package to the popular GitHub repository of the original package
This package is an exact replica of the original “torchtriton” project with the exception of two differences:
1. The malicious “triton” binary located in the “runtime” directory of the package
2. Several lines in python that were added to the existing __init__.py directory. This line's role is to execute the malicious binary.
The ./triton/runtime/triton executable inside is an ELF, written in C++, targeted to X64 Linux systems. Its main purpose is to collect the following system information: nameservers from /etc/resolv.conf, hostname from gethostname(), current username, current working directory, and environment variables. It also reads the following files: /etc/hosts, /etc/passwd, the first 1,000 files in $HOME/, $HOME/.gitconfig, and $HOME/.ssh/. All of this information, including the contents of the files, is then uploaded via encrypted DNS queries to the domain *.h4ck[.]cfd, using the DNS server wheezy[.]io.
PyTorch Build
To build the PyTorch project, as part of its source code, there are also Python scripts dedicated to building and packaging the project. Some of its dependencies are built and hosted on the project’s self-hosted server, available at https://download.pytorch.org/whl/
Since the project has other 3rd party dependencies, such as jinja2, there’s a hybrid fetch flow to first attempt to grab the package from PyPi, and if it fails, attempt to fetch it from https://download.pytorch.org/whl/
Dependency Confusion Technique
This attack is the first known significant dependency confusion attack on the PyPi ecosystem. Dependency confusion attacks were first revealed by Alex Birsan in 2021. Since then, the technique has been used countless times in both PyPi and NPM package registries.
In this current incident, the attacker took advantage of the fact that PyTorch consumes several dependency packages from a dedicated package index and the fact that the package manager “pip” prioritizes the PyPi package index above other indices.
In this attack, the attacker published a malicious package with a name identical to a legitimate PyTorch dependency on the PyPi index. This malicious package retained all the functionality of the original package, so users were unaware of the swap and did not experience any problems. In addition to the original functionality, the attacker also added their own malicious functions to the package. This allowed the attacker to use the “dependency confusion” technique to infect PyTorch Linux users with malware.
Fast Mitigation
The PyTorch maintainers took steps towards mitigating the issue as they replaced the dependency with a different package called “pytorch-triton” and created a dummy package on PyPI. In addition, all nightly packages that depended on “torchtriton” were removed from the package indices at the PyTorch download website until further notice.
Attacker’s disclaimers
There are indications that the individual responsible for the attack may be a security researcher. This includes a message left by the attacker on the domain where the malware sends collected data, the domain name itself (h4ck[.]cfd), and a disclaimer included in version 3.0.0 of the malicious software stating that it was only created to “discover dependency confusion vulnerabilities.”
As we discussed in a previous blogpost, Despite any messages or disclaimers that may have been included, it is clear that the package in question is malicious. Exfiltrating environment variables and SSH keys from infected machines is not acceptable behavior for a security researcher. Simply claiming to be a security researcher does not give someone permission to engage in malicious activity.