
On Amazon EKS and Delivery Pipelines
Dirk Michel
Follow
Listen
Share
One of the fun things we get to do when building cloud-native applications is to create and extend software delivery pipelines for them. These pipeline structures can grow in complexity as the number of application components and micro-services increases. Building applications out of significant numbers of loosely coupled independent components and our ambition of shifting work into earlier stages of the software development life cycle (SDLC) tend to require more elaborate software delivery pipelines. The build platforms and tool-chain systems that underpin those pipelines have evolved into business-critical enablers.
Our expectations of software delivery pipelines continue to grow. They are a fly-wheel of accelerating developer productivity and improving our ability to ship software with increased security, quality, and resilience.
Commencing at the point of feature branch merges or approved pull requests, we look to the initial build stages of software delivery pipelines to retrieve the source code and its 3rd party dependencies, build and containerise the application, package Kubernetes manifests, and deliver them to registries. The practicalities of extending delivery pipelines beyond their foundational build stages may not always be obvious, as we aim to secure and evaluate release candidates against a set of additional criteria to establish their viability.
We can choose from many effective and popular systems, tooling, and projects to extend our pipeline capabilities, and the Cloud-Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) and the Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF) ecosystem can help meet new requirements and expectations. The CNCF landscape is famously large, continues to grow, and offers various ingredients, reference frameworks, and best practices we can use.
Adopting cloud-native reference frameworks and maturity models to identify and prioritise objectives can be crucial to extend software delivery pipelines in a structured and incremental way.
Reference frameworks such as the Supply-chain Levels for Software Artefacts (SLSA), the CNCF Security TAG’s Supply Chain Security Assessment, and the Center of Internet Security (CIS) Supply Chain Security Guide, define intermediate milestones and maturity levels. The Kubernetes Pod Security Standards (PSS) define graded security levels for deployment configuration packages. The CIS Kubernetes Benchmark and the Amazon EKS security best practices can also be an essential reference when extending pipelines and build system infrastructure with “pipeline clusters”. Other AWS cloud security and resilience reference frameworks are relevant when applications interact with AWS APIs to provision AWS cloud resources they depend on.
This blog explores opportunities for extending software delivery pipelines for cloud-native applications. The following diagram illustrates the frame of reference.
For those on a tight time budget: The TL;DR of the following sections is to show a way of extending software delivery pipelines for cloud-native applications with CNCF projects and AWS cloud services to improve supply chain security, deployability, and resilience. Secure 3rd-party materials, protect and sign artefacts, generate and distribute metadata. Deploy release candidates into increasingly production-like environments where additional assessments are applied to help establish confidence in their “release-ability”. Combined with standards and reference frameworks, we can structure and prioritise pipeline extensions. Creating pipelines that achieve a robust security and resilience state takes time, and working with frameworks that define milestones is essential.