
KubeCon NA 2022 Day 2: SigstoreCon
Alex Floyd Marshall
Follow
56
Listen
Share
Today I attended the first annual SigstoreCon. I’ve been following the progress of this project with great interest over the past year or so and I hear “I’m joining Chainguard” is a square on the KubeCon bingo card.
Sigstore, if you don’t know, is a collection of products (cosign, rekor, and fulcio) aimed at improving supply chain security by creating a chain of verifiable evidence attached to software artifacts. They do this by providing a simple UI/UX for devs to sign commits and images, record the data about those signatures in a transparency log, and tie the certificates used for signing to their identity through OIDC authentication (making the identity claims fairly robust provided you trust the OIDC provider). There is a default, public implementation hosted by the OpenSSF and largely managed by Chainguard. The tools are also open source and can be self-hosted.
Sigstore and Zero Trust
As a security engineer, I am largely trying to facilitate the answers to two questions so that security decisions can be made more effectively:

Who/what is doing a thing?
What is the thing they are doing?
There are certain actors that aren’t allowed to do anything in an environment, others that can do some things, and still others that can do still more things. I need both the “Who” and the “What” to make decisions about whether to allow or block a behavior.
The who — the identity question — is getting a lot of attention lately thanks to the “Zero Trust” buzzword. Zero Trust is essentially a set of protocols for very robustly establishing the identity of an actor, which then allows you to make well informed authorization decisions about their behavior.
Most often, we think about Zero Trust in relation to user authentication, especially in “remote” or “cloud” environments. It used to be that you could sort-of assume that if a user was accessing a system from somewhere on your campus, they were who they said they were and could access all the things their account had permission to access. But if (a) the vast majority of your users aren’t on a campus and may not even work from the same place all the time and (b) most of the resources they are accessing are in a cloud that you don’t have physical access to, that security model no longer works. You need a much more robust way of proving that a user is who they say they are. That’s the original problem Zero Trust was designed to solve, and largely it uses cryptographic tools that tie a users identity to a token or a x.509 certificate that can be chained back to a root of trust.
Those same concepts for strong user authentication can also be applied to authenticating services or workloads and even supply chain artifacts. That’s what Sigstore is trying to do: using cryptographic evidence to prove that a software artifact is who it says it is — establishing its identity beyond a reasonable doubt.
My major interest in Sigstore is around the possibility of unifying the sources of trust in our various Zero Trust implementations. If we are using x.509 certs to prove out user identities and using x.509 certs to attest to the provenance of software artifacts, can we connect the chains of trust for all those certs to ultimately be anchored at the same root? By self hosting Sigstore’s products and tying it to our own CA, I believe we could. What I’m interested in is whether this might be a way to bolster trust and/or reduce the complexity of authorization logic, in both cases potentially reducing room for error.
Caution Flag: Identity Is Not Security
Over lunch I had a great chat with a Chainguard dev that included an important reminder: just because you’ve strongly authenticated the identity of an entity (whether that’s the person signing a commit or an image running as a workload), that does not mean that entity is “secure.” Identity is only half of what we need to solve for, we also need to check whether that entity’s behavior is authorized and/or that their code is “secure.” In other words, Zero Trust, whether in user authentication or in a software supply chain, does not solve all our security problems. We still need things like a WAF, code scanning, endpoint detection and response, etc. Sigstore bears a lot of promise around the Zero Trust/identity aspects of software supply chain security. But just using Sigstore does not make your supply chain secure, it just means you have a pretty good idea who/what is at work in that supply chain. Next you need to know whether you trust those actors enough to authorize them to do things and, if so, what things you trust them to do.