
Securing AWS ECR Images with Cosign
Hussein Ayoub
Follow
8
Listen
Share
Intro
In our ever-evolving digital landscape, the realm of supply chain security risks is rapidly transforming. As organizations increasingly rely on cloud infrastructure and CI/CD pipelines to manage their software applications, the accompanying vulnerabilities have grown in complexity and potential impact.
Organizations are increasingly incorporating third-party services and open-source software into their offerings, creating potential entry points for malicious actors.
In this blog post, i will showcase how you can incorporate signature verification of your docker images hosted on AWS ECR as most companies are relying on it as a registry for their containerized workload on ECS, EKS , AppRunner..etc
Cosign
Cosign is a new open source tool to manage the process of signing and verifying container images. It is developed as part of the sigstore project and aims “to make signatures invisible infrastructure”. With images signed by Cosign, users do not need to change their infrastructure to store the public signing key. With Cosign, the signatures directly appear as tags of the image, linked to the associated image via the digest.
Cosign supports using KMS as a provider to generate and sign keys.
Walk through
First of all, we need to generate the signing keys using cosign and specify the KMS alias for our key:
The above command will store the public key in the cosign.pub file.
Then, we need to login to ECR , tag & push our docker image:
After pushing the image to Amazon ECR, sign the image using the public key we created earlier and re-upload it to your AWS repository:
Finally, verify your image signature:
In conclusion, the changing nature of supply chain security risks requires a proactive stance in protecting cloud infrastructure and CI/CD pipelines. Recognizing the potential threats and comprehending the underlying reasons for these evolving risks is the initial step in mitigating them. By doing so, organizations can safeguard their data, sustain operational continuity.