
KubeCon NA 2022 Day 3: Who You Trust Matters
Alex Floyd Marshall
Follow
89
1
Listen
Share
In the last session I attended today, Justin Cappos of NYU asked what might be the most important question I have heard about the Sigstore project so far. To roughly paraphrase, his question was about how you scope who you trust in Sigstore’s OIDC based authentication model. To refresh: Sigstore abstracts away key management for code/commit and image/artifact signing in supply chains. Instead of managing keys yourself, the Sigstore toolset authenticates you via an OIDC provider, generates an ephemeral key to sign the object, and records the metadata about all of that in a transparency log that can be used to validate those signatures later. Sigstore guarantees that if an object passes its validation step, that object was signed with a valid key tied to a valid identity from a valid provider.
Justin’s question stems from that OIDC authentication process. He wanted to know how you could scope or limit the OIDC providers that you trust. To be clear, there are built in ways to do this in Sigstore. You can either (a) host your own Fulcio Certificate Authority, telling it which OIDC providers to trust or (b) (I think I understood this correctly, somebody check my facts) you can tell cosign which providers it is allowed to trust when it is validating signatures.
Here’s why this is really important. If you trust an OIDC provider, you trust any identity derived from that provider. This means that if your list of trusted providers includes public providers, like Google, GitHub, or Microsoft (the default providers in the public Sigstore instance), Sigstore trusts any identity furnished by those public providers. This significantly degrades the importance of the Sigstore signature and validation because anyone can create a valid ID with one of those public providers.
For example: how hard is it to set up a really-evil-hacker @ gmail.com account and use that to sign artifacts with Sigstore? Not hard. Once you’ve established that account, it would be a valid identity according to the Google OIDC provider, and that would be enough to generate valid signatures for those artifacts. But who is really-evil-hacker @ gmail.com? No idea, so why should I trust their signed image, even if cosign says its signatures are “valid”? Relying on signatures tied to public OIDC providers doesn’t tell me much because those signatures could be from anyone, so I can’t know whether they correspond to a human that I would/should actually trust.
I think where Justin wanted to go with this is that in the in-toto specification, which is being used in the background of Sigstore, you can define specific users and/or specific keys that you trust, and this provides a much more robust security guarantee. Now you don’t just know you have a valid signature from some random gmail account, you know that if the image is successfully validated then it was Justin who signed that image, for example. As long as you trust Justin, you can proceed.
The value that I see in the Sigstore project is the possibility of running it as a private instance tied to a private OIDC provider. In that scenario, Sigstore can guarantee that validly signed objects were signed by someone at your organization without needing to explicitly declare all the individuals in your organization and their keys. It solves the problem of enterprise-wide key management while still providing the benefits of signing code and artifacts, in other words. But this much stronger guarantee only works if you have limited the allowed OIDC providers to be ones you directly control (ie, not ones anybody can register for an account with).
This has two big implications:

The public instance of Sigstore probably does not bolster security guarantees without additional safeguards. For instance: Kubernetes now uses Sigstore to sign their releases. However, only approved individuals can directly contribute to the K8s codebase or generate a release. Tying commits/releases from a narrow list of known individuals to their identities with a public OIDC provider is a reasonable way to further substantiate that they were in fact the ones making the contributions (and weren’t, for example, being impersonated). On the other hand, a large package ecosystem like pypi or NPM — where anyone can create an account and publish packages — is not going to be helped (much) by public Sigstore. All a malicious actor in that ecosystem needs to do is take the extra step of using one of the public OIDC providers (where they can also easily make a fake/malicious account) to sign their releases. In this scenario, Sigstore might come to be used in a similar way to how some phishing sites now use Let’s Encrypt certificates: to fool people into thinking they are secure by virtue of the certificate/signature being present.
The business path forward for Chainguard is probably in creating private implementations of Sigstore. There are real security and efficiency benefits to Sigstore in this private instance mode, as I described above. Many enterprises would probably be more than happy to pay for those benefits rather than have to set up and manage that themselves. This may result in substantial benefits to improving the integrity of supply chains for internal and proprietary software. But if this becomes the business model, I’m less sure, for the reasons noted, that Sigstore will achieve its promised gains in supply chain security for open source projects outside of the “big ones” which have well regulated release processes (like K8s).
Other Standout Moments
Three projects I want to spend more time with after today’s talks:

in-toto
SPIFFE/SPIRE
Crossplane
I was already familiar with the first two, but really want to get my hands dirty with them. The last is newish to me: I’d heard of it but not spent any time looking at it.
I also strongly recommend that anyone running Kubernetes in a public cloud check out the slides and (when available) video of this talk: Kubernetes to Cloud Attack Vectors. It would have been hilarious if it wasn’t quite so alarming…
Addendum:
Based on discussions with Zach Newman of Chainguard (which you can read below):

It was a bit simplistic when I said “Sigstore trusts any identity furnished by those public providers.” A more accurate statement would be: “Sigstore trusts any of these public identity providers to validate the identity of the signer.” This is a subtle distinction, but an important one because package owners can establish who is allowed to sign something, and this in turn will impact what signatures pass the validation test. This allows Sigstore to work in concert with things like the commit/release restrictions I describe for the K8s project to validate that the signatures are indeed only from authorized entities.
A private instance of Sigstore might be better served by adding OIDC providers, not taking them away. This is meant to work in concert with the “authorized signers” feature I describe in addendum 1: if you have internal packages that have authorization controls in place, using public OIDC providers to validate the identities of those authorized signers is not a bad thing. But, you might have additional, internal OIDC providers you want to enable the use of, too.
The authorization restrictions around who is allowed/expected to sign things are probably a better control, ultimately, than allowlisting anything from a particular OIDC provider (even an internally controlled one).
HOWEVER: These authorization controls don’t really solve the issue I am raising. Because the determination of who is a valid signer is under the control of the package owner(s), a malicious actor with control of a package (maybe it’s a typo-squat attack, maybe they have gained control of a repo, maybe it’s just a malicious package full stop) could declare themself (or whatever alias they operated under) the allowed signer, use an associated anonymous gmail/GitHub account to validate that identity, and be right back to the place I describe above (with perhaps one extra small step required to complete the ruse). The lesson here is still the same: “who” is doing the signing matters, and if you are consuming external code the fact that it is signed is not by itself an indicator that it is safe or trustworthy.