
Developer Entity Behavioral Analysis (DEBA) Engine
Tzachi(Zack) Zorn
Follow
checkmarx-security
Listen
Share
In today’s fast-paced digital landscape, supply chain attacks have the potential to impact millions of unsuspecting victims in the blink of an eye. Developers increasingly rely on package managers like npm, PyPI, and others to upload and publish new package versions. Attackers have been targeting contributors of popular open source packages as an easy way to affect millions of users.
The Risks of Package Takeovers:
Imagine this scenario: attackers compromise a developer’s account, publishing higher versions of popular or critical packages. Unsuspecting users update their packages, inadvertently receiving malware that harms revenue, reputation, and the safety of the system they are producing. This scenario occurs more frequently than you might realize.
This is precisely what happened with the “ua-parser-js” package in which a threat actor had gained access to the credentials of an NPM user account of the popular “ua-parser-js” package, publishing new versions of the package, which included malicious code. This led to countless users unknowingly installing a crypto miner and credential stealer malware. Similar techniques were then used in two additional popular packages called coa & rc, which affected over 20 million users, highlighting how attackers are increasingly targeting open source contributors.
Throughout the past year, hijacking developers accounts became a trend. The Python package “ctx” with hundreds of thousands of downloads was compromised with malicious code, and a GitHub repository was also hijacked, leading to the spread of malware through a legitimate PHP package called optimistdigital/nova-tailwind.
In August of 2022, we spotted a trend of phishing attacks on the python package manager — PyPi, where an attacker succeeded in compromising popular PyPi user accounts, which were then used to poison their Python packages with malicious payloads.
Currently, the authentication process of many of the package managers, including Github, rely on a username and password, API tokens, or two-factor authentication (2FA). Even though 2FA might seem like a guarantee of security and is still considered a best practice, attackers have been known to advertise and use credential phishing services that can bypass multi-factor authentication.
The Importance of a Monitoring System:
Discovery of suspicious activity in these recent attacks was either coincidental or without a dedicated mechanism in place. This means that the next potential account takeover and subsequent infection have a good chance of going unnoticed for a relatively long period, causing significant damage. An effective behavioral monitoring system can help detect such irregularities and prevent the spread of malicious packages.
These incidents underscore the need for a behavioral monitoring system to warn the open-source community of potential account takeovers.
Introducing the Developer Entity Behavioral Analysis Engine

Realizing that a swift behavioral detection mechanism is needed to detect modern account takeover attacks that bypass 2FA, we developed our Developer Entity Behavioral Analysis (DEBA) engine to protect you and the open-source community. This innovative engine contains multiple ways to continuously monitors and correlate behavioral activity on GitHub and package manager platforms like npm and automatically alerts of any suspicions of compromise in your dependencies. In this blog we will present one of the methods this engine uses determine suspicious activity.
Correlate behavioral activity on GitHub and package manager release.
Open source contributors typically work on their code in a GitHub repository and when ready, publish an updated package version. When a project works in an orderly fashion, it has a matching Git release/tag for every release in the package manager — either done automatically or manually.
During this process, developers use their GitHub account to write the code and their NPM account to publish the package. An attacker taking over a developer’s account on npm might publish a new version to the package manager, however the NPM account wouldn’t allow to add code on GitHub.
To detect an attacker who has stolen an NPM/PYPI account and used it to directly publish a malicious version of a popular package, we can monitor every release of new packages. We check if there is a baseline on GitHub activity for past releases and if the code on GitHub changed before the new package on NPM was released. This detection method relies on developer behavior and can even be applied to attacks that bypass 2FA. Our engine was able to alert us to the attack we have seen in the past.
Just before I wrap up this blog, a big shout out to GitHub has just recently rolled out technology allowing to link the code in the NPM package to respective GitHub Repo.
NPM packages built on cloud CI/CD systems like GitHub Actions, can now contain verifiable links tracing back to their source code and build instructions on GitHub. Once published, the package provenance is displayed on the package registry website.
This development is undoubtedly a fantastic step forward in securing the open-source ecosystem. We hope to see a quick adoption and to see if this will extend beyond just NPM . 
 As we will roll out new mechanisms to detect attacks we know that attackers will respond, so we must observe and stay vigilant in our goal to secure the open source ecosystem against supply chain attacks. Working together to keep the open source eco system safe.
Conclusion
As the digital landscape continues to evolve, securing open-source projects becomes increasingly challenging. While innovative solutions like GitHub’s provenance implementation for npm packages represent significant strides forward, it’s essential to recognize that attackers can still exploit other methods to spread malware through legitimate user accounts. We developed our Developer Entity Behavioral Analysis (DEBA) engine, designed to safeguard your projects by persistently monitoring a wide range of activities across GitHub and various package manager platforms. DEBA automatically notifies of any suspicions of compromise in your dependencies, helping us to detect and mitigate threats before they can cause widespread damage. DEBA ensures you stay ahead of potential threats and maintain the trust and confidence of your users.