
Connaisseur meets Cosign
Verifying Container Image Signatures from an OCI Registry in Kubernetes
With Connaisseur adding experimental support for Cosign, you can now verify OCI container image signatures in Kubernetes. Here is how.
Christoph Hamsen
Follow
sigstore
75
Listen
Share
Software supply chain security is an important but often underrated topic that has recently attracted significant attention due to the Solarwinds hack. A critical part of supply chain security is integrity and provenance of software, i.e. that software deployed to production has not been tampered with and comes from a valid source. This is commonly achieved by signing software after building it and then verifying the resulting signatures before deployment. Though important and despite some discussions, there currently is no default solution to verify container images when deploying them to Kubernetes. Enter Connaisseur and Cosign!
In the following section, I will give a warp speed overview of the central concepts behind Connaisseur, Cosign and the underlying infrastructures, many of which are worth a separate read and I’ll try to point to additional resources for that. In case you are only interested in how to get started, feel free to directly jump to the next section.
Sign, Store, Verify
Connaisseur is an admission controller for Kubernetes with a core focus on two things: container image signature verification and trust pinning. It is described in great detail elsewhere. In short, resource creation or update requests sent to the Kubernetes cluster are intercepted by the admission controller that identifies all container images and verifies their signatures against pre-configured public keys. Based on the result, it either accepts or denies those requests. Thus, integrity and selected provenance of deployed container images are ensured. Besides this central function, Connaisseur also provides some convenience features for practical use like detection mode (warn but do not deny invalid requests) and alerting (issue validation-based alerts to webhooks). If you have ever worked in DevSecOps, you know these two in conjunction come in handy and might spare you some tough nights.
While developing Connaisseur, we took great care to ensure usability and compatibility with a wide variety of (managed) Kubernetes solutions and container registries. The supported image signatures, however, were so far solely based on Docker Content Trust (DCT) which, in turn, builds on Notary (v1), a server (somewhat¹) separate to the registry to store and manage the signature data. Together, these implement The Update Framework (TUF), a very solid design pattern to protect against various attacks on software distribution and update systems. You can find a very comprehensible description of TUF in a recent article and a talk explaining in detail how DCT, Notary and TUF all tie together.
Notary v1 has served as a solid basis for signing and verifying container images in the past few years. However, some limitations — mostly related to it being a (somewhat¹) separate server from the registry — have caused challenges to its usability and scalability in multi-registry scenarios which has hindered widespread adoption so far. As a result, the Open Container Initiative (OCI; responsible for designing open standards for containers, e.g. the runtime-spec and image-spec) adjusted the image specification in order to allow placing signatures alongside images in the same registry, and corresponding work on Notary v2 was started.
In parallel, the Linux Foundation Project Sigstore to improve usability and security of signing and verifying open source software was recently announced:
Just like how Let’s Encrypt provides free certificates and automation tooling for HTTPS, sigstore provides free certificates and tooling to automate and verify signatures of source code. Sigstore also has the added benefit of being backed by transparency logs, which means that all the certificates and attestations are globally visible, discoverable and auditable.
Among its tooling is Cosign for creating, storing and verifying container image signatures in such OCI registries. Within the registry, the signatures directly appear as tags of the image linked to the associated image via the digest:
Furthermore, Cosign aims to integrate with the central Sigstore infrastructure such as Rekor, the signature transparency log to e.g. protect against key compromises, and Fulcio, the PKI for code signing certificates for OpenID connect-based signing. Besides its remarkably straight-forward usage, the commitment to compatibility and the general focus within Sigstore to deliver solid and user-friendly solutions to common supply chain security threats make Cosign a strong candidate for container image signatures.
Now with the latest release, Connaisseur adds support for Cosign-based signatures!
⚠️ As Cosign and Sigstore are currently still experimental and under heavy development and so is our integration, we also consider this an experimental feature that might be unstable over time ⚠️