
Github commit signing
Robert Kozak
Follow
The Emburse Tech Blog
3
Listen
Share
This article mostly talks about how to set up GPG keys. GitHub just announced you can sign commits with ssh keys. https://github.blog/changelog/2022-08-23-ssh-commit-verification-now-supported/
Signing, or code signing specifically, is the process of using cryptography to digitally add a signature to data. The receiver of the data can verify that the signature is authentic, and therefore must’ve come from the signatory. It’s like physical signatures, but digital and more reliable.
You can sign commits and tags locally, to give other people confidence about the origin of a change you have made. If a commit or tag has a GPG or S/MIME signature that is cryptographically verifiable, GitHub marks the commit or tag “Verified” or “Partially verified.”
Identity Protection/Impersonation
Why is it a must that we sign our commits? The high level issue is that the author of a commit is whoever shows up in the Author: field, which can be any random string. GitHub manages permissions on a repo using a GitHub account, which may or may not use the same email addresses in a commit. Anyone can push commits to their own repositories with anyone else’s email address.
This came up quite publicly in early 2021 when a group of GitHub users started protesting the takedown of Youtube-dl, and “forged” a bunch of commits, misattributing them to Nat Friedman, the CEO of GitHub. GitHub even happily shows the profile photo from an account with the forged email address, adding to the confusion. GitHub has since made some improvements to make this a little easier to notice, but it’s still easy enough to play a joke on someone.
Why does GitHub allow you to push commits from other people? It’s not obvious at first, but this is actually core to the Git protocol. Any time you sync a remote repo to your fork, you’re pushing commits from other people. Anytime you rebase a branch, or cherry-pick something, you’re pushing commits from other people.
Git commit signing is the only in-band way to protect against this. If you sign all of your commits, distribute your public keys, and tell anyone that cares to check the signatures, you can protect against someone impersonating you.
Installing GPG
Besides Git, the only requirement is that you must have GPG installed. I recommend using GPG version 2.2 or higher

On Windows, you can download the Gpg4win distribution from the GPG website
On macOS, the easiest thing is to use Homebrew:
Once brew finishes the installation, update the gpg-agent.conf to know to use pin entry-mac to hold your passphrase. In your terminal run these commands:

Most Linux distributions come with GPG pre-installed; if not, you can always find it on their official repositories.
Note that in some Linux distributions, the application is called gpg2, so you might need to replace gpg with gpg2 in the commands below. In this case, you might also need to run
Additional configuration for Linux and macOS
On Linux and macOS, you can enable the GPG agent to avoid having to type the secret key’s password every time. To do that, we need to create our ~/.gnupg/gpg.conf file. In your terminal run these commands:
You will also need to add these two lines to your profile file (~/.bashrc, ~/.bash_profile, ~/.zprofile, or wherever appropriate), then relaunch your shell (or run source ~/.bashrc or similar):
Generate a GPG key pair
You don’t really need to generate a new key if you already have one
To start, generate a new GPG key pair (public and private):
Configure the key with:

Kind of key: type 4 for (4) RSA (sign only)
Keysize: 4096
Expiration: choose a reasonable value, for example 2y for 2 years (it can be renewed)
Then answer a few questions:

Your real name. You could use your GitHub username here if you’d like.
Email. Your email address. Which must match your email as configured in GitHub
You will be asked to type a passphrase which is used to encrypt your secret key on disk. This is important, otherwise attackers could steal your secret key, and then they’d be able to sign messages and Git commits pretending to be you.
You can verify your key was created with:
In the example above, my new key ID is rsa4096/B0985F51, or just B0985F51.
You can confirm that GPG is working and able to sign messages with:
If your GPG agent is having issues, you can restart it with:
Configure Git to sign your commits
Once you have your private key, you can configure Git to sign your commits with that:
Tell Git to automatically sign all your commits:
Adding the GPG key to GitHub
In order for GitHub to accept your GPG key and show your commits as “verified”, you first need to ensure that the email address you use when committing a code change is both included in the GPG key and verified on GitHub.
To set what email address Git uses when creating a commit use:
Once you’ve done it, upload your public GPG key to GitHub and associate it with your account. In the SSH and GPG Keys settings page, add a new GPG key and paste your public key, which you can get with:
Your public GPG key begins with — — -BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK — — — and ends with — — -END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK — — -.
After you add your GPG key and if you see an “unverified” after the email address please ensure that your email address is registered to your profile. https://github.com/settings/emails
Making a signed commit
After configuring all of the above, your Git commits can now be signed with your GPG key.
You can check that the commit was signed with:
Configuring Visual Studio Code for signing commits
If you’re using VS Code, you can configure it to sign your Git commits with the Git: Enable commit signing flag (git.enableCommitSigning).
Submitting Your Key to a Public Key Server (very optional)
Before you jump on submitting your key to a service such as the MIT PGP Key Server, you should consider the following:

You cannot delete your key once submitted
Spammers have been known to harvest email addresses from these servers
If you’re only signing your Git commits to GitHub this isn’t necessary
References:
https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification
https://dlorenc.medium.com/should-you-sign-git-commits-f068b07e1b1f
https://gist.github.com/troyfontaine/18c9146295168ee9ca2b30c00bd1b41e