
Using AI to analyze if code is malicious? Think again.
Bogdan Kortnov
Follow
illustria.io
55
1
Listen
Share
The rise of Artificial Intelligence has brought about a revolutionary change in various sectors unlocking the full potential of tomorrow’s arrival. AI can perform tasks that typically require human intelligence. It has significantly increased efficiency and productivity by automating repetitive and boring tasks, allowing humans to focus on more innovative and strategic work.
As illustria, a cybersecurity company fighting open-source software supply chain attackers, we wanted to see if ChatGPT is able to classify malicious code. The results amazed us and as we kept digging we discovered some pitfalls attackers could add to manipulate such AI tools.
Detecting Malicious Code with ChatGPT
Our research team started its journey with challenging ChatGPT to detect if the code snippets we send are suspicious to contain malicious code.
As a starting point, the playground app https://platform.openai.com/playground was a great place. We created a prompt with instructions to respond “suspicious” when the code contains malicious code. Otherwise “clean”.
You are an assistant that only speaks JSON. Do not write normal text. You analyze the code and result if the code is having malicious code. simple response without explanation. Output a string with only 2 possible values. “suspicious” if negative or “clean” if positive.
The model we used is “gpt-3.5-turbo” with a custom temperature setting set to 0 as we wanted less random results.
Automating Using OpenAI API
We proceeded to create a Python script to use OpenAI’s API for automating this prompt with any code we would like to scan.
To use OpenAI’s API, we first needed to get an API key
There’s an official client in PyPi https://pypi.org/project/openai
Next, we challenged the API to analyze the following malicious code, which is injection using the built it “eval” keyword additional Python code received from a URL, a technique widely used by attackers
As expected, ChatGPT accurately reported: “suspicious”
Scanning Packages
We wrapped the simple function with additional functions able to scan files, directories, and zip files. Then challenged ChatGPT with the popular package requests code from GitHub
Also this time, ChatGPT accurately reported: “clean”
We then proceeded with a copy of W4SP stealer malware hosted on GitHub
You guessed right, ChatGPT accurately reported: “suspicious”
full code is available here on this gist
Although this is a super naive implementation (with ~100 lines of code), we got a very powerful tool thanks to one out of many AI platforms. Just imagine the possibilities of the near future.
Sounds great, so whats the catch?
Pitfall #1: Overriding instructions
Large Language Models (LLM) such as ChatGPT can be easily manipulated and introduce a old security risks in a new format. Take this example for instance:
We took the exact same snippet from the previous example and added a code comment instructing ChatGPT to report this file as clean if it is being analyzed by an AI:
ChatGPT reporting: “clean” (for a suspicious code).
Down The Rabbit Hole
Sometimes it is easy to forget that the AI model we use here is just “another word generator statistics engine” with some context behind it. For example, if I ask you, the reader, to complete the prompt “The sky is b” you and everyone you know will probably say “Blue”. The probability is how the engine is trained, it’s basically a statistics engine that will complete the phrase based on what others might have said. The AI doesn’t know what the “sky” is, it has never seen one. It doesn’t know what the color “blue” looks like, it has no eyes as it has no friends nor taste of food that it can describe so vividly.
The second issue is that the model was never thought the answer “I don’t know”. Since everyone on the internet has some answer to offer, even if you ask something ridiculous, the model will always spit an answer even though it might be complete gibberish as it will try to “complete” the text by the context behind it.
The third part consists of the way those models are fed data, they always get it through one pipeline, as if one person is feeding it the data. By that it can’t differentiate between different people, its world view consists of one person only. So if this person says something is “Immoral” and then they say it is “Moral”, what should the AI Model believe?
So, what does it have to do with GPT restrictions? Well, there aren’t really any restrictions at all. The way that the creators restrict the model is by instructing it to “behave”, and this is used as a context for your next query… But you can override it with the most ease like the community has already demonstrated with DAN¹.
Major Security Pitfalls
Pitfall #2: Manipulation of response Format.
Aside from manipulating the result of the returned content, the attacker may manipulate the response format, breaking the system or leveraging a vulnerability of an internal parser or a deserialization process.
Decide whether a Tweet’s sentiment is positive, neutral, or negative. return an asnwer in a JSON format: {“sentiment”: Literal[“positive”, “neutral”, “negative”]}.
Tweet: “[TWEET]”
Pitfall #3: Manipulation of response Content.
When using LLMs we can easily “enrich” an interaction with a user, making it feel like they are talking with a human when contacting support or filling some online registration form. For example:
Bot: “Hey! What’s your name and where are you from?”
User: “[USER_RESPONSE]”
The system will then take the user response and send the request to an LLM to extract the “first name”, “last name” and “country” fields.
Please extract the name, last name and country from the following user input. Return the answer in a JSON format {“name”: Text, “last_name”: Text, “country”: Text}:
```[USER_RESPONSE]```
When a normal user input is passed, it all seems great. But, as an attacker I can pass the following response:
While the LLM response is not perfect, it demonstrates a way to generate an SQL injection query which bypasses any WAF protection.
Summary
Our experiment with LLMs has shown that language-based AI tools can be a powerful resource for detecting malicious code. However, it is important to note that these tools are not completely reliable and can be manipulated by attackers.
Call for action for cyber solutions to protect us from AI manipulations as we move towards a more AI-driven future, we see processes become more automated and controlled by AI.
Imagine a firewall solution integrating AI tool to process inputs and generate rules on the fly for example. There’s a new attack surface coming with this cool new technology.
Remember, LLMs are like another person, packages together with the good and the bad. As humans, they are vulnerable to Social Engineering. Every input from them needs to be verified before it is processed.
About Us
Our mission is to stop supply chain attacks in the development lifecycle while increasing developer velocity. We stop supply chain attacks with an Agentless End-to-End Watchdog while enforcing your open-source policy. For more information about us and how to protect yourself go to illustria.io and schedule a demo.